W912P822B0019
US Army Corps
of Engineers

New Orleans District
Grand Isle and Vicinity
West Jetty
Spur Dike
Jefferson Parish, Louisiana
Construction Solicitation
and Specifications
February 2022
Ed 22-018

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
CORPS OF ENGINEERS, NEW ORLEANS DISTRICT
7400 LEAKE AVENUE
NEW ORLEANS, LA 70118-3651
SOLICITATION: W912P822B0019 February 2022
FOR: Grand Isle and Vicinity, West Jetty Spur Dike, Jefferson Parish, Louisiana
TO OPEN:
I. NOTE THE AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM REQUIREMENT OF THE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
CLAUSE WHICH MAY APPLY TO THE CONTRACT RESULTING FROM THIS SOLICITATION.
II. NOTE THE CERTIFICATION OF NONSEGREGATED FACILITIES IN THIS SOLICITATION.
Bidders, offerors and applicants are cautioned to note the "Certification of Non-segregated Facilities" in
the solicitation. Failure of a bidder or offeror to agree to the certification will render his bid or offer
non-responsive to the terms of solicitations involving awards of contracts exceeding $10,000 which are not
exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause.
III. Prospective contractors must register in the System for Award Management (SAM). See FAR Clause
52.204-7 for required information. The website for SAM is https://www.sam.gov. You will be required to
provide your company’s Dun and Bradstreet (D&B) D-U-N-S number. If you do not already have a D&B
D-U-N-S number, one can be requested at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform.
BIDDERS MUST PROVIDE FULL, ACCURATE AND COMPLETE INFORMATION AS REQUIRED BY THIS
SOLICITATION AND ITS ATTACHMENTS. THE PENALTY FOR MAKING FALSE STATEMENTS IN BIDS
IS PRESCRIBED IN 18 U.S.C. 1001. (FAR 52.214-4 APR 1984)
DESCRIPTION AND MAGNITUDE OF WORK: The work consists of constructing a stone spur on the west jetty
at Grand Isle; including placing stone and geotextile; bedding construction; and other incidental work.
CAUTION TO BIDDERS: Due to the response for COVID-19, most federal employees are utilizing to telework
on varying days. As a result, we will continue to implement the below procedures for all current and future bid
openings until further notice.
Please see the attached for the virtual bid instructions.
NOTE: ALL WORK UNDER THESE SPECIFICATIONS SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE PROVISIONS OF EM 385-1-1 "CORPS OF ENGINEERS SAFETY AND HEALTH REQUIREMENTS
MANUAL", DATED NOVEMBER 2014.
Ed 22-018

ALL INQUIRIES REGARDING THIS SOLICITATION
SHOULD BE MADE TO THE FOLLOWING:
Cori A. Caimi
AND/OR
Veronica Garner-Flint
CONTRACT SPECIALISTS
U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS, NEW ORLEANS DISTRICT
E‐MAILS: Cori.A.Caimi@USACE.ARMY.MIL
PHONE: (504) 862-1352
AND/OR
Veronica.Garner-Flint@usace.army.mil
PHONE: (504) 862‐1515
COLLECT CALLS NOT ACCEPTED
NOTE: FOR THE MOST PROMPT REPSONSE, PLEASE SEND ALL QUESTIONS VIA
E‐MAIL

PROJECT TABLE OF CONTENTS
Division 00 – PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTING
00010 Solicitation, Offer and Award
SF-1442
Bidding Schedule
00100 Instructions, To Bidders
00600 Representations and Certifications
00700 Contract Clauses
Division 01 - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
01100 General Provisions
01 33 00 Submittal Procedures
01 42 00 Sources for Reference Publications
01 45 00.15 10 Resident Management System Contractor Mode
01 45 04.00 10 Contractor Quality Control
01 57 20.00 12 Environmental Protection
01 78 02.00 10 Closeout Submittals
Division 02 – EXISTING CONDITIONS
02 21 10.00 12 Surveys
Division 31 – EARTHWORK
31 05 19.04 12 Separator Geotextile
Division 35 – WATERWAY AND MARINE CONSTRUCTION
35 31 19.03 12 Armor Stone
35 31 21.10 12 Bedding and Core Construction
PTC-i ED 22-018

1. SOLICITATION NUMBER 2. TYPE OF SOLICITATION 3. DATE ISSUED PAGE OF PAGES
SOLICITATION, OFFER,
AND AWARD SEALED BID (IFB)
(Construction, Alteration, or Repair) NEGOTIATED (RFP)
W912P822B0019 2/10/2022
IMPORTANT - The "offer" section on the reverse must be fully completed by offeror.
4. CONTRACT NUMBER 5. REQUISITION/PURCHASE REQUEST NUMBER 6. PROJECT NUMBER
7. ISSUED BY CODE 8. ADDRESS OFFER TO
U.S. Army Engineer District, New Orleans U.S. Army Engineer District, New Orleans
7400 Leake Ave. Attn: CEMVN-CT-E
New Orleans, LA 70118-3651 7400 Leake Ave., Room 172
New Orleans, LA 70118
9.FOR INFORMATION a. NAME b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (Include area code) (NO COLLECT CALLS)
CALL: CORI A. CAIMI (504)862-1352
SOLICITATION
NOTE: In sealed bid solicitations "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid and "bidder".
10. THE GOVERNMENT REQUIRES PERFORMANCE OF THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THESE DOCUMENTS (Title, identifying number, date)
Grand Isle and Vicinity, LA, West Jetty Spur Dike and Extension
Grand Isle and Vicinity, LA, West Jetty Spur Dike, Jefferson Parish, LA (ED-22-018)
This procurement is Unrestricted.
The works consists of constructing a stone spur on the west jetty at Grand Isle; including placing stone and geotextile;
bedding construction and other incidental work.
11.The contractor shall begin performance within 7 calendar days and complete it within 80 calendar days after receiving
award, notice to proceed. This performance period is mandatory negotiable. (See ).
12a. THE CONTRACTOR MUST FURNISH ANY REQUIRED PERFORMANCE AND PAYMENT BONDS? 12b. CALENDAR DAYS
(If "YES", indicate within how many calendar days after award in Item 12b.)
YES NO 1(one)
13. ADDITIONAL SOLICITATION REQUIREMENTS:
a.Sealed offers in original and 0 copies to perform the work required are due at the place specified in Item 8 by 11:00 (hour)
local time 14 Mar 2022 (date). If this is a sealed bid solicitation, offers will be publicly opened at that time. Sealed envelopes
containing offers shall be marked to show the offeror's name and address, the solicitation number, and the date and time offers are due.
b.An offer guarantee is, is not required.
c.All offers are subject to the (1) work requirements, and (2) other provisions and clauses incorporated in the solicitation in full text or by reference.
d.Offers providing less than 60 calendar days for Government acceptance after the date offers are due will not be considered and will be rejected.
STANDARD FORM 1442 (REV. 8/2014)
Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.236-1(d)

OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)
14. NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR (Include ZIP Code) 15. TELEPHONE NUMBER (Include area code)
16. REMITTANCE ADDRESS (Include only if different than Item 14.)
CODE FACILITY CODE
17. The offeror agrees to perform the work required at the prices specified below in strict accordance with the terms of this solicitation, if this offer is accepted
by the Government in writing within calendar days after the date offers are due. (Insert any number equal to or greater than the minimum requirement
stated in Item 13d. Failure to insert any number means the offeror accepts the minimum in Item 13d.)
AMOUNTS
18.The offeror agrees to furnish any required performance and payment bonds.
19.ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS
(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation -- give number and date of each)
AMENDMENT
NUMBER
DATE.
20a. NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN OFFER (Type or print) 20b. SIGNATURE 20c. OFFER DATE
AWARD (To be completed by Government)
21. ITEMS ACCEPTED:
22. AMOUNT 23. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA
24.SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN ITEM 25. OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION PURSUANT TO
(4 copies unless otherwise specified) 26 10 U.S.C. 2304(c) ( ) 41 U.S.C. 3304(a) ( )
26. ADMINISTERED BY 27. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY
USACE, New Orleans Area Office US ARMY CORPS OF ENGR FINANCE CENTER
7400 Leake Avenue 5722 INTEGRITY DRIVE
New Orleans, LA 70118 MILLINGTON TN 38054-5005
CONTRACTING OFFICER WILL COMPLETE ITEM 28 OR 29 AS APPLICABLE
28. NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT (Contractor is required to sign this document 29. AWARD (Contractor is not required to sign this document.) Your offer on this
and return copies to issuing office.) Contractor agrees to furnish solicitation is hereby accepted as to the items listed. This award consummates the
contract, which consists of (a) the Government solicitation and your offer, and (b)
and deliver all items or perform all work requirements identified on this form and
this contract award. No further contractual document is necessary.
any continuation sheets for the consideration stated in this contract. The rights
and obligations of the parties to this contract shall be governed by (a) this contract
award, (b) the solicitation, and (c) the clauses, representations, certifications, and
specifications incorporated by reference in or attached to this contract.
30a. NAME AND TITLE OF CONTRACTOR OR PERSON AUTHORIZED TO SIGN 31a. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)
(Type or print)
30b. SIGNATURE 30c. DATE 31b. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 31c. DATE
BY
STANDARD FORM 1442 (REV. 8/2014) BACK

W912P822B0019
Page 3 of 63
Section 00010 - Bidding Schedule
ITEM NO SUPPLIES/SERVICES QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE AMOUNT
0001 1 Job
Mobiilization and Demobilization
FFP
FOB: Destination
NET AMT
ITEM NO SUPPLIES/SERVICES QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE AMOUNT
0002 3,950 Square
Yard
Separator Geotextile
FFP
FOB: Destination
NET AMT
ITEM NO SUPPLIES/SERVICES QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE AMOUNT
0003
Armor Stone Placement
FFP
NET AMT

W912P822B0019
Page 4 of 63
ITEM NO SUPPLIES/SERVICES QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE AMOUNT
0003AA 12,500 Metric Ton
First 12,500 Tons
FFP
FOB: Destination
NET AMT
ITEM NO SUPPLIES/SERVICES QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE AMOUNT
0003AB 3,500 Metric Ton
All Over 12,500 Tons
FFP
FOB: Destination
NET AMT
ITEM NO SUPPLIES/SERVICES QUANTITY UNIT UNIT PRICE AMOUNT
0004 1,850 Metric Ton
Core and Bedding Material
FFP
FOB: Destination
NET AMT

SECTION 00010 – BIDDING SCHEDULE
Grand Isle and Vicinity,
West Jetty Spur Dike,
Jefferson Parish, Louisiana
Estimated
Item DESCRIPTION Unit Unit Price Estimated Amount
Quantity
0001 Mobilization and Demobilization 1 JOB
0002 Separator Geotextile 3,950 SY
0003 Armor Stone Placement
0003AA First 12,500 Tons 12,500 TON
0003AB All over 12,500 Tons 3,500 TON
0004 Core and Bedding Material 1,850 TON
TOTAL $
**The unit "JOB" as used in this Bidding Schedule is synonymous with the term "Lump Sum" used
elsewhere within these plans and specifications.
Award will be made as a whole to one bidder.
NOTE 1: Bidders shall furnish unit prices for each item listed in the Schedule requiring a
unit price. If the bidder fails to insert a unit price in the appropriate blank for required
item(s), but does furnish an extended total, or an estimated amount for such item(s), the
Government shall deem the unit price to be the quotient obtained by dividing the
extended amount for that line item by the quantity. IF A BIDDER OMITS BOTH THE
UNIT PRICE AND THE EXTENDED TOTAL OR ESTIMATED AMOUNT FOR ANY
ITEM, ITS BID SHALL BE DECLARED NON-RESPONSIVE AND THEREFORE
INELIGIBLE FOR AWARD.
NOTE 2: Any bid may be rejected if the Contracting Officer determines in writing that it is
unreasonable as to price. Unreasonableness of price includes not only total price of bid,
but the price for individual line items as well. Any bid may be rejected if the prices for any
line items or sub line items are materially unbalanced (See FAR 14.404-2).
NOTE 3: THE NOTICE TO PROCEED (NTP): The successful bidder is advised that
performance and payment bonds shall be submitted in accordance with the time frame in
block 12B of SF 1442. The NTP will be issued immediately after verification of
acceptable performance and payment bonds. Within seven (7) days after issuance of the
NTP, the Contractor shall initiate a meeting to discuss the submittal process with the
Area or Resident Engineer or his authorized representative. Physical work cannot start
until the Accident Prevention Plan, Contractor Quality Control Plan, and other submittals
which may be required, have been submitted and approved and all preliminary meetings
called for under the contract, have been conducted.
NOTE 4: RAPID VENDOR PAYMENT: Web based instructions for the submission of
invoices;
http://www.mvn.usace.army.mil/BusinessWithUs/Contracting/RapidVendorPayment.aspx
00010-3 Ed 22-018

EVALUATION OF SUBLINE ITEMS (Dec 2019 - AFARS 5152.211-9000).
Item Nos. 0003 are subdivided into two or more estimated quantities and are to be
separately priced. The Government will evaluate each of these items on the basis of
total price of its subline items.
(End of Clause)
VARIATIONS IN ESTIMATED QUANTITIES - SUBLINE ITEMS (Dec 2019 - AFARS
5152.211-9001).
This variation in estimated quantities clause is applicable only to item Nos. 0003.
(a) Variation from the estimated quantity in the actual work performed under any
second or subsequent subline item or elimination of all work under such a
second or subsequent subline item will not be the basis for an adjustment in
contract unit price.
(b) Where the actual quantity of work performed for item Nos. 0003 is less than
85% of the quantity of the first subline item listed under such item, the contractor
will be paid at the contract unit price for that subline item for the actual quantity of
work performed and, in addition, an equitable adjustment shall be made in
accordance with the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.211-18,
VARIATION IN ESTIMATED QUANTITY.
(c) If the actual quantity of work performed under item Nos. 0003 exceeds 115%
or is less than 85% of the total estimated quantity of the subline item under that
item and/or if the quantity of the work performed under the second subline item
or any subsequent subline item under item Nos. NONE exceeds 115% or is less
than 85% of the estimated quantity of any such subline item, and if such variation
causes an increase or a decrease in the time required for performance of this
contract the contract completion time will be adjusted in accordance with the
clause FAR 52.211-18, VARIATION IN ESTIMATED QUANTITY.
(End of Clause)
00010-4 Ed 22-018

DATE BOND EXECUTED (Must not be later than bid opening
BID BOND date) OMB Control Number: 9000-0045
(See instructions on reverse) Expiration Date: 8/31/2022
Paperwork Reduction Act Statement - This information collection meets the requirements of 44 USC § 3507, as amended by section 2 of the Paperwork Reduction Act of
1995. You do not need to answer these questions unless we display a valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number. The OMB control number for this collection is
9000-0045. We estimate that it will take 1 hour to read the instructions, gather the facts, and answer the questions. Send only comments relating to our time estimate, including
suggestions for reducing this burden, or any other aspects of this collection of information to: General Services Administration, Regulatory Secretariat Division (M1V1CB), 1800 F Street,
NW, Washington, DC 20405.
PRINCIPAL (Legal name and business address) TYPE OF ORGANIZATION ("X" one)
INDIVIDUAL PARTNERSHIP JOINT VENTURE
CORPORATION OTHER (Specify)
STATE OF INCORPORATION
SURETY(IES) (Name and business address)
PENAL SUM OF BOND BID IDENTIFICATION
PERCENT AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED BID DATE INVITATION NUMBER
OF BID
PRICE MILLION(S) THOUSAND(S) HUNDRED(S) CENTS
FOR (Construction, Supplies or
Services)
OBLIGATION:
We, the Principal and Surety(ies) are firmly bound to the United States of America (hereinafter called the Government) in the above penal sum. For payment of the penal sum, we bind
ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators, and successors, jointly and severally. However, where the Sureties are corporations acting as co-sureties, we, the Sureties, bind
ourselves in such sum "jointly and severally" as well as "severally" only for the purpose of allowing a joint action or actions against any or all of us. For all other purposes, each Surety
binds itself, jointly and severally with the Principal, for the payment of the sum shown opposite the name of the Surety. If no limit of liability is indicated, the limit of liability is the full
amount of the penal sum.
CONDITIONS:
The Principal has submitted the bid identified above.
THEREFORE:
The above obligation is void if the Principal - (a) upon acceptance by the Government of the bid identified above, within the period specified therein for acceptance (sixty (60) days if no
period is specified), executes the further contractual documents and gives the bond(s) required by the terms of the bid as accepted within the time specified (ten (10) days if no period is
specified) after receipt of the forms by the principal; or (b) in the event of failure to execute such further contractual documents and give such bonds, pays the Government for any cost
of procuring the work which exceeds the amount of the bid.
Each Surety executing this instrument agrees that its obligation is not impaired by any extension(s) of the time for acceptance of the bid that the Principal may grant to the Government.
Notice to the surety(ies) of extension(s) is waived. However, waiver of the notice applies only to extensions aggregating not more than sixty (60) calendar days in addition to the period
originally allowed for acceptance of the bid.
WITNESS:
The Principal and Surety(ies) executed this bid bond and affixed their seals on the above date.
PRINCIPAL
1. 2. 3.
SIGNATURE(S)
(Seal) (Seal) (Seal) Corporate
NAME(S) & 1. 2. 3. Seal
TITLE(S)
(Typed)
INDIVIDUAL SURETY(IES)
1. 2.
SIGNATURE(S)
(Seal) (Seal)
NAME(S) 1. 2.
(Typed)
CORPORATE SURETY(IES)
NAME & STATE OF INCORPORATIONLIABILITY LIMIT ($)
ADDRESS
Corporate
1. 2.
SIGNATURE(S)
Seal
NAME(S) & 1. 2.
TITLE(S)
(Typed)
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION STANDARD FORM 24 (REV. 8/2016)
Previous edition is NOT usable Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.228(a)

NAME & STATE OF INCORPORATION LIABILITY LIMIT ($)
ADDRESS
Corporate
1. 2.
SIGNATURE(S) Seal
NAME(S) & 1. 2.
TITLE(S)
(Typed)
NAME & STATE OF INCORPORATION LIABILITY LIMIT ($)
ADDRESS
Corporate
1. 2.
SIGNATURE(S) Seal
NAME(S) & 1. 2.
TITLE(S)
(Typed)
NAME & STATE OF INCORPORATIONLIABILITY LIMIT ($)
ADDRESS
Corporate
1. 2.
SIGNATURE(S) Seal
NAME(S) & 1. 2.
TITLE(S)
(Typed)
NAME & STATE OF INCORPORATION LIABILITY LIMIT ($)
ADDRESS
1. 2. Corporate
SIGNATURE(S)
Seal
NAME(S) & 1. 2.
TITLE(S)
(Typed)
NAME & STATE OF INCORPORATION LIABILITY LIMIT ($)
ADDRESS
1. 2. Corporate
SIGNATURE(S)
Seal
NAME(S) & 1. 2.
TITLE(S)
(Typed)
NAME & STATE OF INCORPORATIONLIABILITY LIMIT ($)
ADDRESS
1. 2. Corporate
SIGNATURE(S)
Seal
NAME(S) & 1. 2.
TITLE(S)
(Typed)
INSTRUCTIONS
1. This form is authorized for use when a bid guaranty is required. Any deviation from this form will require the written approval of the Administrator of General
Services.
2. Insert the full legal name and business address of the Principal in the space designated "Principal" on the face of the form. An authorized person shall sign the
bond. Any person signing in a representative capacity (e.g., an attorney-in-fact) must furnish evidence of authority if that representative is not a member of the
firm, partnership, or joint venture, or an officer of the corporation involved.
3. The bond may express penal sum as a percentage of the bid price. In these cases, the bond may state a maximum dollar limitation (e.g., 20% of the bid price
but the amount not to exceed dollars).
4. (a) Corporations executing the bond as sureties must appear on the Department of the Treasury's list of approved sureties and must act within the limitations
listed therein. The value put into the LIABILITY LIMIT block is the penal sum (i.e., the face value) of the bond, unless a co-surety arrangement is proposed.
(b) When multiple corporate sureties are involved, their names and addresses shall appear in the spaces (Surety A, Surety B, etc.) headed "CORPORATE
SURETY(IES)." In the space designated "SURETY(IES)" on the face of the form, insert only the letter identifier corresponding to each of the sureties. Moreover,
when co-surety arrangements exist, the parties may allocate their respective limitations of liability under the bond, provided that the sum total of their liability
equals 100% of the bond penal sum.
(c) When individual sureties are involved, a completed Affidavit of Individual Surety (Standard Form 28) for each individual surety, shall accompany the bond.
The Government may require the surety to furnish additional substantiating information concerning its financial capability.
5. Corporations executing the bond shall affix their corporate seals. Individuals shall execute the bond opposite the word "Corporate Seal"; and shall affix an
adhesive seal if executed in Maine, New Hampshire, or any other jurisdiction requiring adhesive seals.
6. Type the name and title of each person signing this bond in the space provided.
7. In its application to negotiated contracts, the terms "bid" and "bidder" shall include "proposal" and "offeror."
STANDARD FORM 24 (REV. 8/2016) BACK

"General Decision Number: LA20220005 01/07/2022
Superseded General Decision Number: LA20210005
State: Louisiana
Construction Type: Heavy
Counties: Jefferson, Orleans, Plaquemines, St Bernard, St
Charles, St James, St John the Baptist and St Tammany Counties
in Louisiana.
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS (Includes flood control, water &
sewer lines, and water wells. Also includes elevated storage
tanks in all listed parishes except Plaquemines and St. James.
Excludes industrial construction-chemical processing, power
plants, and refineries.)
Note: Contracts subject to the Davis-Bacon Act are generally
required to pay at least the applicable minimum wage rate
required under Executive Order 14026 or Executive Order 13658.
Please note that these Executive Orders apply to covered
contracts entered into by the federal government that are
subject to the Davis-Bacon Act itself, but do not apply to
contracts subject only to the Davis-Bacon Related Acts,
including those set forth at 29 CFR 5.1(a)(2)-(60).
If the contract is entered into on or after January 30, 2022, or
the contract is renewed or extended (e.g., an option is
exercised) on or after January 30, 2022, Executive Order 14026
generally applies to the contract. The contractor must pay all
covered workers at least $15.00 per hour (or the applicable wage
rate listed on this wage determination, if it is higher) for all
hours spent performing on that contract in 2022.
If the contract was awarded on or between January 1, 2015 and
January 29, 2022, and the contract is not renewed or extended on
or after January 30, 2022, Executive Order 13658 generally
applies to the contract. The contractor must pay all covered
workers at least $11.25 per hour (or the applicable wage rate
listed on this wage determination, if it is higher) for all
hours spent performing on that contract in 2022.
The applicable Executive Order minimum wage rate will be
adjusted annually. If this contract is covered by one of the
Executive Orders and a classification considered necessary for
performance of work on the contract does not appear on this wage
determination, the contractor must still submit a conformance
request.

Additional information on contractor requirements and worker
protections under the Executive Orders is available at
www.dol.gov/whd/govcontracts.
Modification Number Publication Date
0 01/07/2022
CARP0729-001 01/01/2021
Rates Fringes
MILLWRIGHT.......................$ 32.61 13.39
----------------------------------------------------------------
CARP1846-006 07/01/2021
Rates Fringes
CARPENTER
(formbuilding/formsetting and
Piledrivers).....................$ 28.29 9.97
----------------------------------------------------------------
* ELEC0130-005 12/06/2021
JEFFERSON, ORLEANS, PLAQUEMINES, ST. BERNARD, ST. CHARLES, ST.
JAMES, AND ST. JOHN THE BAPTIST PARISHES
Rates Fringes
ELECTRICIAN (including low
voltage wiring)..................$ 32.25 13.75
----------------------------------------------------------------
* ELEC1077-002 12/06/2021
ST. TAMMANY PARISH
Rates Fringes
ELECTRICIAN (including low
voltage wiring)..................$ 26.39 3%+9.42
----------------------------------------------------------------
ENGI0406-018 07/01/2009
Rates Fringes
OPERATOR: Power Equipment
Bulldozer...................$ 21.26 6.70
Mechanic....................$ 23.31 6.70

----------------------------------------------------------------
PLAS0567-003 08/01/2018
JEFFERSON, ORLEANS, PLAQUEMINES, ST. BERNARD, ST. CHARLES, ST.
JOHN THE BAPTIST, and ST. TAMMANY PARISHES
Rates Fringes
Cement Mason/Concrete Finisher...$ 26.74 7.62
----------------------------------------------------------------
PLAS0812-003 01/01/2021
ST. JAMES PARISH
Rates Fringes
Cement Mason/Concrete Finisher...$ 30.91 5.40
----------------------------------------------------------------
PLUM0060-002 06/07/2021
JEFFERSON, ORLEANS, PLAQUEMINES, ST. BERNARD, ST. CHARLES, ST.
JAMES (Southeastern Portion), ST. JOHN THE BAPTIST, and ST.
TAMMANY PARISHES
Rates Fringes
Plumbers (excluding pipe
laying)..........................$ 29.90 13.29
----------------------------------------------------------------
PLUM0198-005 09/01/2021
ST. JAMES PARISH (Northwestern Portion)
Rates Fringes
PLUMBER (excluding pipe
laying)..........................$ 27.29 15.69
----------------------------------------------------------------
SULA2004-007 05/13/2004
Rates Fringes
CARPENTER (all other work).......$ 13.75 2.60
Laborers:
Common/Landscape............$ 9.88 0.00
Fence.......................$ 11.24 0.00
Flagger.....................$ 8.58 0.00

Mason Tender................$ 7.25 0.00
Pipelayer...................$ 9.84 0.00
PIPEFITTER (excluding
pipelaying)......................$ 17.52 4.51
Power equipment operators:
Backhoe/Excavator...........$ 14.42 0.00
Crane.......................$ 16.34 3.30
Dragline....................$ 16.50 0.00
Front End Loader............$ 13.89 0.00
Oiler.......................$ 10.03 0.00
Truck drivers:
Dump........................$ 11.01 0.00
Pickup......................$ 12.25 0.00
----------------------------------------------------------------
WELDERS - Receive rate prescribed for craft performing
operation to which welding is incidental.
================================================================
Note: Executive Order (EO) 13706, Establishing Paid Sick Leave
for Federal Contractors applies to all contracts subject to the
Davis-Bacon Act for which the contract is awarded (and any
solicitation was issued) on or after January 1, 2017. If this
contract is covered by the EO, the contractor must provide
employees with 1 hour of paid sick leave for every 30 hours
they work, up to 56 hours of paid sick leave each year.
Employees must be permitted to use paid sick leave for their
own illness, injury or other health-related needs, including
preventive care; to assist a family member (or person who is
like family to the employee) who is ill, injured, or has other
health-related needs, including preventive care; or for reasons
resulting from, or to assist a family member (or person who is
like family to the employee) who is a victim of, domestic
violence, sexual assault, or stalking. Additional information
on contractor requirements and worker protections under the EO
is available at www.dol.gov/whd/govcontracts.
Unlisted classifications needed for work not included within
the scope of the classifications listed may be added after
award only as provided in the labor standards contract clauses
(29CFR 5.5 (a) (1) (ii)).
----------------------------------------------------------------

The body of each wage determination lists the classification
and wage rates that have been found to be prevailing for the
cited type(s) of construction in the area covered by the wage
determination. The classifications are listed in alphabetical
order of ""identifiers"" that indicate whether the particular
rate is a union rate (current union negotiated rate for local),
a survey rate (weighted average rate) or a union average rate
(weighted union average rate).
Union Rate Identifiers
A four letter classification abbreviation identifier enclosed
in dotted lines beginning with characters other than ""SU"" or
""UAVG"" denotes that the union classification and rate were
prevailing for that classification in the survey. Example:
PLUM0198-005 07/01/2014. PLUM is an abbreviation identifier of
the union, which prevailed in the survey for this
classification, which in this example would be Plumbers 0198
indicates the local union number or district council number
where applicable, i.e., Plumbers Local 0198. The next number,
005 in the example, is an internal number used in processing
the wage determination. 07/01/2014 is the effective date of the
most current negotiated rate, which in this example is July 1,
2014.
Union prevailing wage rates are updated to reflect all rate
changes in the collective bargaining agreement (CBA) governing
this classification and rate.
Survey Rate Identifiers
Classifications listed under the ""SU"" identifier indicate that
no one rate prevailed for this classification in the survey and
the published rate is derived by computing a weighted average
rate based on all the rates reported in the survey for that
classification. As this weighted average rate includes all
rates reported in the survey, it may include both union and
non-union rates. Example: SULA2012-007 5/13/2014. SU indicates
the rates are survey rates based on a weighted average
calculation of rates and are not majority rates. LA indicates
the State of Louisiana. 2012 is the year of survey on which
these classifications and rates are based. The next number, 007
in the example, is an internal number used in producing the
wage determination. 5/13/2014 indicates the survey completion
date for the classifications and rates under that identifier.
Survey wage rates are not updated and remain in effect until a
new survey is conducted.
Union Average Rate Identifiers

Classification(s) listed under the UAVG identifier indicate
that no single majority rate prevailed for those
classifications; however, 100% of the data reported for the
classifications was union data. EXAMPLE: UAVG-OH-0010
08/29/2014. UAVG indicates that the rate is a weighted union
average rate. OH indicates the state. The next number, 0010 in
the example, is an internal number used in producing the wage
determination. 08/29/2014 indicates the survey completion date
for the classifications and rates under that identifier.
A UAVG rate will be updated once a year, usually in January of
each year, to reflect a weighted average of the current
negotiated/CBA rate of the union locals from which the rate is
based.
----------------------------------------------------------------
WAGE DETERMINATION APPEALS PROCESS
1.) Has there been an initial decision in the matter? This can
be:
* an existing published wage determination
* a survey underlying a wage determination
* a Wage and Hour Division letter setting forth a position on
a wage determination matter
* a conformance (additional classification and rate) ruling
On survey related matters, initial contact, including requests
for summaries of surveys, should be with the Wage and Hour
Division National Office Branch of Wage Surveys. If the
response from this initial contact is not satisfactory, then
the process described in 2.) and 3.) should be followed.
With regard to any other matter not yet ripe for the formal
process described here, initial contact should be with the
Branch of Construction Wage Determinations. Write to:
Branch of Construction Wage Determinations
Wage and Hour Division
U.S. Department of Labor
200 Constitution Avenue, N.W.
Washington, DC 20210
2.) If the answer to the question in 1.) is yes, then an
interested party (those affected by the action) can request
review and reconsideration from the Wage and Hour Administrator

(See 29 CFR Part 1.8 and 29 CFR Part 7). Write to:
Wage and Hour Administrator
U.S. Department of Labor
200 Constitution Avenue, N.W.
Washington, DC 20210
The request should be accompanied by a full statement of the
interested party's position and by any information (wage
payment data, project description, area practice material,
etc.) that the requestor considers relevant to the issue.
3.) If the decision of the Administrator is not favorable, an
interested party may appeal directly to the Administrative
Review Board (formerly the Wage Appeals Board). Write to:
Administrative Review Board
U.S. Department of Labor
200 Constitution Avenue, N.W.
Washington, DC 20210
4.) All decisions by the Administrative Review Board are final.
================================================================
END OF GENERAL DECISION"

W912P822B0019
Page 5 of 62
Section 00100 - Instructions to Bidders
CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
52.204-7 System for Award Management OCT 2018
52.214-3 Amendments To Invitations For Bids DEC 2016
52.214-4 False Statements In Bids APR 1984
52.214-5 Submission Of Bids DEC 2016
52.214-6 Explanation To Prospective Bidders APR 1984
52.214-7 Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of Bids NOV 1999
52.214-12 Preparation Of Bids APR 1984
52.214-18 Preparation of Bids-Construction APR 1984
52.214-19 Contract Award-Sealed Bidding-Construction AUG 1996
52.214-24 Multiple Technical Proposals APR 1984
52.219-14 Limitations On Subcontracting SEP 2021
52.222-5 Construction Wage Rate Requirements--Secondary Site of the MAY 2014
Work
52.225-12 Notice of Buy American Requirement - Construction MAY 2014
Materials Under Trade Agreements
52.232-16 Progress Payments DEC 2021
52.236-15 Schedules for Construction Contracts APR 1984
52.236-17 Layout of Work APR 1984
252.236-7008 Contract Prices-Bidding Schedules DEC 1991
CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT
52.203-13 CONTRACTOR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND CONDUCT (NOV 2021)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause--
Agent means any individual, including a director, an officer, an employee, or an independent Contractor, authorized
to act on behalf of the organization.
Full cooperation—
(1) Means disclosure to the Government of the information sufficient for law enforcement to identify the nature and
extent of the offense and the individuals responsible for the conduct. It includes providing timely and complete
response to Government auditors' and investigators' request for documents and access to employees with
information;
(2) Does not foreclose any Contractor rights arising in law, the FAR, or the terms of the contract. It does not require-
-
(i) A Contractor to waive its attorney-client privilege or the protections afforded by the attorney work product
doctrine; or
(ii) Any officer, director, owner, or employee of the Contractor, including a sole proprietor, to waive his or her
attorney client privilege or Fifth Amendment rights; and
(3) Does not restrict a Contractor from--
(i) Conducting an internal investigation; or

W912P822B0019
Page 6 of 62
(ii) Defending a proceeding or dispute arising under the contract or related to a potential or disclosed violation.
Principal means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory
responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business
segment; and similar positions).
Subcontract means any contract entered into by a subcontractor to furnish supplies or services for performance of a
prime contract or a subcontract.
Subcontractor means any supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm that furnished supplies or services to or for a prime
contractor or another subcontractor.
United States means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.
(b) Code of business ethics and conduct. (1) Within 30 days after contract award, unless the Contracting Officer
establishes a longer time period, the Contractor shall--
(i) Have a written code of business ethics and conduct;
(ii) Make a copy of the code available to each employee engaged in performance of the contract.
(2) The Contractor shall--
(i) Exercise due diligence to prevent and detect criminal conduct; and
(ii) Otherwise promote an organizational culture that encourages ethical conduct and a commitment to compliance
with the law.
(3)(i) The Contractor shall timely disclose, in writing, to the agency Office of the Inspector General (OIG), with a
copy to the Contracting Officer, whenever, in connection with the award, performance, or closeout of this contract
or any subcontract thereunder, the Contractor has credible evidence that a principal, employee, agent, or
subcontractor of the Contractor has committed--
(A) A violation of Federal criminal law involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, or gratuity violations found in
Title 18 of the United States Code; or
(B) A violation of the civil False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729-3733).
(ii) The Government, to the extent permitted by law and regulation, will safeguard and treat information obtained
pursuant to the Contractor's disclosure as confidential where the information has been marked “confidential” or
“proprietary” by the company. To the extent permitted by law and regulation, such information will not be released
by the Government to the public pursuant to a Freedom of Information Act request, 5 U.S.C. Section 552, without
prior notification to the Contractor. The Government may transfer documents provided by the Contractor to any
department or agency within the Executive Branch if the information relates to matters within the organization's
jurisdiction.
(iii) If the violation relates to an order against a Governmentwide acquisition contract, a multi-agency contract, a
multiple-award schedule contract such as the Federal Supply Schedule, or any other procurement instrument
intended for use by multiple agencies, the Contractor shall notify the OIG of the ordering agency and the IG of the
agency responsible for the basic contract.
(c) Business ethics awareness and compliance program and internal control system. This paragraph (c) does not
apply if the Contractor has represented itself as a small business concern pursuant to the award of this contract or if
this contract is for the acquisition of a commercial product or commercial service as defined at FAR 2.101. The

W912P822B0019
Page 7 of 62
Contractor shall establish the following within 90 days after contract award, unless the Contracting Officer
establishes a longer time period:
(1) An ongoing business ethics awareness and compliance program.
(i) This program shall include reasonable steps to communicate periodically and in a practical manner the
Contractor's standards and procedures and other aspects of the Contractor's business ethics awareness and
compliance program and internal control system, by conducting effective training programs and otherwise
disseminating information appropriate to an individual's respective roles and responsibilities.
(ii) The training conducted under this program shall be provided to the Contractor's principals and employees, and as
appropriate, the Contractor's agents and subcontractors.
(2) An internal control system.
(i) The Contractor's internal control system shall--
(A) Establish standards and procedures to facilitate timely discovery of improper conduct in connection with
Government contracts; and
(B) Ensure corrective measures are promptly instituted and carried out.
(ii) At a minimum, the Contractor's internal control system shall provide for the following:
(A) Assignment of responsibility at a sufficiently high level and adequate resources to ensure effectiveness of the
business ethics awareness and compliance program and internal control system.
(B) Reasonable efforts not to include an individual as a principal, whom due diligence would have exposed as
having engaged in conduct that is in conflict with the Contractor's code of business ethics and conduct.
(C) Periodic reviews of company business practices, procedures, policies, and internal controls for compliance with
the Contractor's code of business ethics and conduct and the special requirements of Government contracting,
including--
(1) Monitoring and auditing to detect criminal conduct;
(2) Periodic evaluation of the effectiveness of the business ethics awareness and compliance program and internal
control system, especially if criminal conduct has been detected; and
(3) Periodic assessment of the risk of criminal conduct, with appropriate steps to design, implement, or modify the
business ethics awareness and compliance program and the internal control system as necessary to reduce the risk of
criminal conduct identified through this process.
(D) An internal reporting mechanism, such as a hotline, which allows for anonymity or confidentiality, by which
employees may report suspected instances of improper conduct, and instructions that encourage employees to make
such reports.
(E) Disciplinary action for improper conduct or for failing to take reasonable steps to prevent or detect improper
conduct.
(F) Timely disclosure, in writing, to the agency OIG, with a copy to the Contracting Officer, whenever, in
connection with the award, performance, or closeout of any Government contract performed by the Contractor or a
subcontractor thereunder, the Contractor has credible evidence that a principal, employee, agent, or subcontractor of
the Contractor has committed a violation of Federal criminal law involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, or
gratuity violations found in Title 18 U.S.C. or a violation of the civil False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729-3733).

W912P822B0019
Page 8 of 62
(1) If a violation relates to more than one Government contract, the Contractor may make the disclosure to the
agency OIG and Contracting Officer responsible for the largest dollar value contract impacted by the violation.
(2) If the violation relates to an order against a Governmentwide acquisition contract, a multi-agency contract, a
multiple-award schedule contract such as the Federal Supply Schedule, or any other procurement instrument
intended for use by multiple agencies, the contractor shall notify the OIG of the ordering agency and the IG of the
agency responsible for the basic contract, and the respective agencies' contracting officers.
(3) The disclosure requirement for an individual contract continues until at least 3 years after final payment on the
contract.
(4) The Government will safeguard such disclosures in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this clause.
(G) Full cooperation with any Government agencies responsible for audits, investigations, or corrective actions.
(d) Subcontracts.
(1) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in subcontracts that
exceed the threshold specified in FAR 3.1004(a) on the date of subcontract award and a performance period of more
than 120 days.
(2) In altering this clause to identify the appropriate parties, all disclosures of violation of the civil False Claims Act
or of Federal criminal law shall be directed to the agency Office of the Inspector General, with a copy to the
Contracting Officer.
(End of clause)
52.204-22 ALTERNATIVE LINE ITEM PROPOSAL (JAN 2017)
(a) The Government recognizes that the line items established in this solicitation may not conform to the Offeror's
practices. Failure to correct these issues can result in difficulties in acceptance of deliverables and processing
payments. Therefore, the Offeror is invited to propose alternative line items for which bids, proposals, or quotes are
requested in this solicitation to ensure that the resulting contract is economically and administratively
advantageous to the Government and the Offeror.
(b) The Offeror may submit one or more additional proposals with alternative line items, provided that alternative
line items are consistent with subpart 4.10 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. However, acceptance of an
alternative proposal is a unilateral decision made solely at the discretion of the Government. Offers
that do not comply with the line items specified in this solicitation may be determined to be nonresponsive or
unacceptable.
(End of provision)
52.209-7 INFORMATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (OCT 2018)
(a) Definitions. As used in this provision--

W912P822B0019
Page 9 of 62
Administrative proceeding means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a
determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian
Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This
includes administrative proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a
Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or
inspection of deliverables.
Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000 means--
(1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and
(2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-
quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules).
Principal means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory
responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a
division or business segment; and similar positions).
(b) The offeror ( ) has ( ) does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than
$10,000,000.
(c) If the offeror checked “has” in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer,
that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS)
is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information:
(1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the
award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the
Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions:
(i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction.
(ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty,
reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more.
(iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in--
(A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or
(B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000.
(iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an
acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in
paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision.
(2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision,
whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence.
(d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as
required through maintaining an active registration in the System for Award Management, which can be accessed
via https://www.sam.gov (see 52.204-7).
(End of provision)

W912P822B0019
Page 10 of 62
52.209-13 VIOLATION OF ARMS CONTROL TREATIES OR AGREEMENTS--CERTIFICATION (NOV
2021)
(a) This provision does not apply to acquisitions at or below the simplified acquisition threshold or to acquisitions of
commercial products and commercial services as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation 2.101.
(b) Certification. [Offeror shall check either (1) or (2).]
____ (1) The Offeror certifies that--
(i) It does not engage and has not engaged in any activity that contributed to or was a significant factor in the
President's or Secretary of State's determination that a foreign country is in violation of its obligations undertaken in
any arms control, nonproliferation, or disarmament agreement to which the United States is a party, or is not
adhering to its arms control, nonproliferation, or disarmament commitments in which the United States is a
participating state. The determinations are described in the most recent unclassified annual report provided to
Congress pursuant to section 403 of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 2593a). The report is
available at https://www.state.gov/bureaus-offices/under-secretary-for-arms-control-and-international-security-
affairs/bureau-of-arms-control-verification-and-compliance/; and
(ii) No entity owned or controlled by the Offeror has engaged in any activity that contributed to or was a significant
factor in the President's or Secretary of State's determination that a foreign country is in violation of its obligations
undertaken in any arms control, nonproliferation, or disarmament agreement to which the United States is a party, or
is not adhering to its arms control, nonproliferation, or disarmament commitments in which the United States is a
participating state. The determinations are described in the most recent unclassified annual report provided to
Congress pursuant to section 403 of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 2593a). The report is
available at https://www.state.gov/bureaus-offices/under-secretary-for-arms-control-and-international-security-
affairs/bureau-of-arms-control-verification-and-compliance/; or
____ (2) The Offeror is providing separate information with its offer in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this
provision.
(c) Procedures for reviewing the annual unclassified report (see paragraph (b)(1) of this provision). For clarity,
references to the report in this section refer to the entirety of the annual unclassified report, including any separate
reports that are incorporated by reference into the annual unclassified report.
(1) Check the table of contents of the annual unclassified report and the country section headings of the reports
incorporated by reference to identify the foreign countries listed there. Determine whether the Offeror or any person
owned or controlled by the Offeror may have engaged in any activity related to one or more of such foreign
countries.
(2) If there may have been such activity, review all findings in the report associated with those foreign countries to
determine whether or not each such foreign country was determined to be in violation of its obligations undertaken
in an arms control, nonproliferation, or disarmament agreement to which the United States is a party, or to be not
adhering to its arms control, nonproliferation, or disarmament commitments in which the United States is a
participating state. For clarity, in the annual report an explicit certification of non-compliance is equivalent to a
determination of violation. However, the following statements in the annual report are not equivalent to a
determination of violation:
(i) An inability to certify compliance.
(ii) An inability to conclude compliance.
(iii) A statement about compliance concerns.

W912P822B0019
Page 11 of 62
(3) If so, determine whether the Offeror or any person owned or controlled by the Offeror has engaged in any
activity that contributed to or is a significant factor in the determination in the report that one or more of these
foreign countries is in violation of its obligations undertaken in an arms control, nonproliferation, or disarmament
agreement to which the United States is a party, or is not adhering to its arms control, nonproliferation, or
disarmament commitments in which the United States is a participating state. Review the narrative for any such
findings reflecting a determination of violation or non-adherence related to those foreign countries in the report,
including the finding itself, and to the extent necessary, the conduct giving rise to the compliance or adherence
concerns, the analysis of compliance or adherence concerns, and efforts to resolve compliance or
adherence concerns.
(4) The Offeror may submit any questions with regard to this report by email to NDAA1290Cert@state.gov. To the
extent feasible, the Department of State will respond to such email inquiries within 3 business days.
(d) Do not submit an offer unless--
(1) A certification is provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision and submitted with the offer; or
(2) In accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this provision, the Offeror provides with its offer information that the
President of the United States has--
(i) Waived application under U.S.C. 2593e(d) or (e); or
(ii) Determined under 22 U.S.C. 2593e(g)(2) that the entity has ceased all activities for which measures were
imposed under 22 U.S.C.2593e(b).
(e) Remedies. The certification in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision is a material representation of fact upon which
reliance was placed when making award. If it is later determined that the Offeror knowingly submitted a false
certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Government, such as suspension or debarment, the
Contracting Officer may terminate any contract resulting from the false certification.
(End of provision)
52.216-1 TYPE OF CONTRACT (APR 1984)
The Government contemplates award of a firm-fixed price contract resulting from this solicitation.
(End of provision)
52.222-23 NOTICE OF REQUIREMENT FOR AFFIRMATIVE ACTION TO ENSURE EQUAL
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY FOR CONSTRUCTION (FEB 1999)
(a) The offeror's attention is called to the Equal Opportunity clause and the Affirmative Action Compliance
Requirements for Construction clause of this solicitation.
(b) The goals for minority and female participation, expressed in percentage terms for the Contractor's aggregate
workforce in each trade on all construction work in the covered area, are as follows:
Goals for minority Goals for female
participation for each trade participation for each trade

W912P822B0019
Page 12 of 62
20% - 23% 6.9%
These goals are applicable to all the Contractor's construction work performed in the covered area. If the Contractor
performs construction work in a geographical area located outside of the covered area, the Contractor shall apply the
goals established for the geographical area where the work is actually performed. Goals are published periodically in
the Federal Register in notice form, and these notices may be obtained from any Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs office.
(c) The Contractor's compliance with Executive Order 11246, as amended, and the regulations in 41 CFR 60-4 shall
be based on (1) its implementation of the Equal Opportunity clause, (2) specific affirmative action obligations
required by the clause entitled "Affirmative Action Compliance Requirements for Construction,'' and (3) its efforts
to meet the goals. The hours of minority and female employment and training must be substantially uniform
throughout the length of the contract, and in each trade. The Contractor shall make a good faith effort to employ
minorities and women evenly on each of its projects. The transfer of minority or female employees or trainees from
Contractor to Contractor, or from project to project, for the sole purpose of meeting the Contractor's goals shall be a
violation of the contract, Executive Order 11246, as amended, and the regulations in 41 CFR 60-4. Compliance with
the goals will be measured against the total work hours performed.
(d) The Contractor shall provide written notification to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Federal Contract
Compliance, U.S. Department of Labor, within 10 working days following award of any construction subcontract in
excess of $10,000 at any tier for construction work under the contract resulting from this solicitation. The
notification shall list the --
(1) Name, address, and telephone number of the subcontractor;
(2) Employer's identification number of the subcontractor;
(3) Estimated dollar amount of the subcontract;
(4) Estimated starting and completion dates of the subcontract; and
(5) Geographical area in which the subcontract is to be performed.
(e) As used in this Notice, and in any contract resulting from this solicitation, the "covered area" is Jefferson Parish,
LA
(End of provision)
52.225-11 BUY AMERICAN--CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS UNDER TRADE AGREEMENTS (NOV
2021)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause--
Caribbean Basin country construction material means a construction material that--
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a Caribbean Basin country; or
(2) In the case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been
substantially transformed in a Caribbean Basin country into a new and different construction material distinct from
the materials from which it was transformed.
Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item—

W912P822B0019
Page 13 of 62
(1) Means any item of supply (including construction material) that is--
(i) A commercial product (as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition of "commercial product" at Federal
Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 2.101);
(ii) Sold in substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and
(iii) Offered to the Government, under a contract or subcontract at any tier, without modification, in the same form
in which it is sold in the commercial marketplace; and
(2) Does not include bulk cargo, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 40102(4)such as agricultural products and petroleum
products.
Component means an article, material, or supply incorporated directly into a construction material.
Construction material means an article, material, or supply brought to the construction site by the Contractor or
subcontractor for incorporation into the building or work. The term also includes an item brought to the site
preassembled from articles, materials, or supplies. However, emergency life safety systems, such as emergency
lighting, fire alarm, and audio evacuation systems, that are discrete systems incorporated into a public building or
work and that are produced as complete systems, are evaluated as a single and distinct construction material
regardless of when or how the individual parts or components of those systems are delivered to the construction site.
Materials purchased directly by the Government are supplies, not construction material.
Cost of components means--
(1) For components purchased by the Contractor, the acquisition cost, including transportation costs to the place of
incorporation into the construction material (whether or not such costs are paid to a domestic firm), and any
applicable duty (whether or not a duty-free entry certificate is issued); or
(2) For components manufactured by the Contractor, all costs associated with the manufacture of the component,
including transportation costs as described in paragraph (1) of this definition, plus allocable overhead costs, but
excluding profit. Cost of components does not include any costs associated with the manufacture of the construction
material.
Designated country means any of the following countries:
(1) A World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement (WTO GPA) country (Armenia, Aruba,
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea (Republic of), Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Ukraine, or United
Kingdom);
(2) A Free Trade Agreement (FTA) country (Australia, Bahrain, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican
Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Korea (Republic of), Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Panama,
Peru, or Singapore);
(3) A least developed country (Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia,
Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Laos, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Solomon
Islands, Somalia, South Sudan, Tanzania, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Yemen, or Zambia); or

W912P822B0019
Page 14 of 62
(4) A Caribbean Basin country (Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bonaire, British Virgin
Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saba, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent and the Grenadines, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten, or Trinidad and Tobago).
Designated country construction material means a construction material that is a WTO GPA country construction
material, an FTA country construction material, a least developed country construction material, or a Caribbean
Basin country construction material.
Domestic construction material means--
(1) For construction material that does not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both-
(i) An unmanufactured construction material mined or produced in the United States; or
(ii) A construction material manufactured in the United States, if--
(A) The cost of its components mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States exceeds 55 percent of the
cost of all its components. Components of foreign origin of the same class or kind for which nonavailability
determinations have been made are treated as domestic. Components of unknown origin are treated as foreign; or
(B) The construction material is a COTS item; or
(2) For construction material that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both, a
construction material manufactured in the United States if the cost of foreign iron and steel constitutes less than 5
percent of the cost of all components used in such construction material. The cost of foreign iron and steel includes
but is not limited to the cost of foreign iron or steel mill products (such as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, or sheet),
castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture of the construction material and a good faith estimate of the cost of
all foreign iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners. Iron or steel components of unknown origin are
treated as foreign. If the construction material contains multiple components, the cost of all the materials used in
such construction material is calculated in accordance with the definition of "cost of components".
Fastener means a hardware device that mechanically joins or affixes two or more objects together. Examples of
fasteners are nuts, bolts, pins, rivets, nails, clips, and screws.
Foreign construction material means a construction material other than a domestic construction material.
Foreign iron and steel means iron or steel products not produced in the United States. Produced in the United States
means that all manufacturing processes of the iron or steel must take place in the United States, from the initial
melting stage through the application of coatings, except metallurgical processes involving refinement of steel
additives. The origin of the elements of the iron or steel is not relevant to the determination of whether it is domestic
or foreign.
Least developed country construction material means a construction material that--
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a least developed country; or
(2) In the case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been
substantially transformed in a least developed country into a new and different construction material distinct from
the materials from which it was transformed.
Free Trade Agreement country construction material means a construction material that—
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) country; or

W912P822B0019
Page 15 of 62
(2) In the case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been
substantially transformed in a FTA country into a new and different construction material distinct from the materials
from which it was transformed.
Least developed country construction material means a construction material that—
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a least developed country; or
(2) In the case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been
substantially transformed in a least developed country into a new and different construction material distinct from
the materials from which it was transformed.
Predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both means that the cost of the iron and steel content exceeds 50
percent of the total cost of all its components. The cost of iron and steel is the cost of the iron or steel mill products
(such as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture of the product and a
good faith estimate of the cost of iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners.
Steel means an alloy that includes at least 50 percent iron, between 0.02 and 2 percent carbon, and may include other
elements.
United States means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.
WTO GPA country construction material means a construction material that--
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a WTO GPA country; or
(2) In the case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been
substantially transformed in a WTO GPA country into a new and different construction material distinct from the
materials from which it was transformed.
(b) Construction materials.
(1) This clause implements 41 U.S.C. chapter 83, Buy American, by providing a preference for domestic
construction material. In accordance with 41 U.S.C. 1907, the domestic content test of the Buy American statute is
waived for construction material that is a COTS item, except that for construction material that consists wholly or
predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both, the domestic content test is applied only to the iron and
steel content of the construction material, excluding COTS fasteners. (See FAR 12.505(a)(2)). In addition, the
Contracting Officer has determined that the WTO GPA and Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) apply to this
acquisition. Therefore, the Buy American restrictions are waived for designated country construction materials.
(2) The Contractor shall use only domestic or designated country construction material in performing this contract,
except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this clause.
(3) The requirement in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause does not apply to information technology that is a
commercial product or to the construction materials or components listed by the Government as follows:
[Contracting Officer to list applicable excepted materials or indicate ``none'']
(4) The Contracting Officer may add other foreign construction material to the list in paragraph (b)(3) of this clause
if the Government determines that--
(i) The cost of domestic construction material would be unreasonable. The cost of a particular domestic construction
material subject to the restrictions of the Buy American statute is unreasonable when the cost of such material
exceeds the cost of foreign material by more than 20 percent;

W912P822B0019
Page 16 of 62
(ii) The application of the restriction of the Buy American statute to a particular construction material would be
impracticable or inconsistent with the public interest; or
(iii) The construction material is not mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States in sufficient and
reasonably available commercial quantities of a satisfactory quality.
(c) Request for determination of inapplicability of the Buy American statute.
(1)(i) Any Contractor request to use foreign construction material in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this clause
shall include adequate information for Government evaluation of the request, including--
(A) A description of the foreign and domestic construction materials;
(B) Unit of measure;
(C) Quantity;
(D) Price;
(E) Time of delivery or availability;
(F) Location of the construction project;
(G) Name and address of the proposed supplier; and
(H) A detailed justification of the reason for use of foreign construction materials cited in accordance with paragraph
(b)(3) of this clause.
(ii) A request based on unreasonable cost shall include a reasonable survey of the market and a completed price
comparison table in the format in paragraph (d) of this clause.
(iii) The price of construction material shall include all delivery costs to the construction site and any applicable
duty (whether or not a duty-free certificate may be issued).
(iv) Any Contractor request for a determination submitted after contract award shall explain why the Contractor
could not reasonably foresee the need for such determination and could not have requested the determination before
contract award. If the Contractor does not submit a satisfactory explanation, the Contracting Officer need not make a
determination.
(2) If the Government determines after contract award that an exception to the Buy American statute applies and the
Contracting Officer and the Contractor negotiate adequate consideration, the Contracting Officer will modify the
contract to allow use of the foreign construction material. However, when the basis for the exception is the
unreasonable price of a domestic construction material, adequate consideration is not less than the differential
established in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this clause.
(3) Unless the Government determines that an exception to the Buy American statute applies, use of foreign
construction material is noncompliant with the Buy American statute.
(d) Data. To permit evaluation of requests under paragraph (c) of this clause based on unreasonable cost, the
Contractor shall include the following information and any applicable supporting data based on the survey of
suppliers:
Foreign and Domestic Construction Materials Price Comparison
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

W912P822B0019
Page 17 of 62
Construction material description Unit of measure Quantity Price (dollars) *
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Item 1:
Foreign construction material.... ....................... ....................... .......................
Domestic construction material... ....................... ....................... .......................
Item 2:
Foreign construction material.... ....................... ....................... .......................
Domestic construction material... ....................... ....................... .......................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[* Include all delivery costs to the construction site and any applicable duty (whether or not a duty-free entry
certificate is issued)].
[List name, address, telephone number, and contact for suppliers surveyed. Attach copy of response; if oral, attach
summary.]
[Include other applicable supporting information.]
(End of clause)
52.228-1 BID GUARANTEE (SEP 1996)
(a) Failure to furnish a bid guarantee in the proper form and amount, by the time set for opening of bids, may be
cause for rejection of the bid.
(b) The bidder shall furnish a bid guarantee in the form of a firm commitment, e.g., bid bond supported by good and
sufficient surety or sureties acceptable to the Government, postal money order, certified check, cashier's check,
irrevocable letter of credit, or, under Treasury Department regulations, certain bonds or notes of the United States.
The Contracting Officer will return bid guarantees, other than bid bonds, (1) to unsuccessful bidders as soon as
practicable after the opening of bids, and (2) to the successful bidder upon execution of contractual documents and
bonds (including any necessary coinsurance or reinsurance agreements), as required by the bid as accepted.-
(c) The amount of the bid guarantee shall be 20% (twenty) percent of the bid price or $3,000,000.00, whichever is
less.-
(d) If the successful bidder, upon acceptance of its bid by the Government within the period specified for
acceptance, fails to execute all contractual documents or furnish executed bond(s) within 10 days after receipt of the
forms by the bidder, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract for default.-
(e) In the event the contract is terminated for default, the bidder is liable for any cost of acquiring the work that
exceeds the amount of its bid, and the bid guarantee is available to offset the difference.
(End of provision)
52.228-14 IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT (NOV 2014)
(a) “Irrevocable letter of credit” (ILC), as used in this clause, means a written commitment by a federally insured
financial institution to pay all or part of a stated amount of money, until the expiration date of the letter, upon
presentation by the Government (the beneficiary) of a written demand therefor. Neither the financial institution nor
the offeror/Contractor can revoke or condition the letter of credit.
(b) If the offeror intends to use an ILC in lieu of a bid bond, or to secure other types of bonds such as performance

W912P822B0019
Page 18 of 62
and payment bonds, the letter of credit and letter of confirmation formats in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause
shall be used.
(c) The letter of credit shall be irrevocable, shall require presentation of no document other than a written demand
and the ILC (including confirming letter, if any), shall be issued/confirmed by an acceptable federally insured
financial institution as provided in paragraph (d) of this clause, and--
(1) If used as a bid guarantee, the ILC shall expire no earlier than 60 days after the close of the bid acceptance
period;
(2) If used as an alternative to corporate or individual sureties as security for a performance or payment bond, the
offeror/Contractor may submit an ILC with an initial expiration date estimated to cover the entire period for which
financial security is required or may submit an ILC with an initial expiration date that is a minimum period of one
year from the date of issuance. The ILC shall provide that, unless the issuer provides the beneficiary written notice
of non-renewal at least 60 days in advance of the current expiration date, the ILC is automatically extended without
amendment for one year from the expiration date, or any future expiration date, until the period of required coverage
is completed and the Contracting Officer provides the financial institution with a written statement waiving the right
to payment. The period of required coverage shall be:
(i) For contracts subject to 40 U.S.C. chapter 31, subchapter III, Bonds, the later of--
(A) One year following the expected date of final payment;
(B) For performance bonds only, until completion of any warranty period; or
(C) For payment bonds only, until resolution of all claims filed against the payment bond during the one-year period
following final payment.
(ii) For contracts not subject to the Miller Act, the later of--
(A) 90 days following final payment; or
(B) For performance bonds only, until completion of any warranty period.
(d)(1) Only federally insured financial institutions rated investment grade by a commercial rating service shall issue
or confirm the ILC.
(2) Unless the financial institution issuing the ILC had letter of credit business of at least $25 million in the past
year, ILCs over $5 million must be confirmed by another acceptable financial institution that had letter of credit
business of at least $25 million in the past year.
(3) The Offeror/Contractor shall provide the Contracting Officer a credit rating that indicates the financial
institutions have the required credit rating as of the date of issuance of the ILC.
(4) The current rating for a financial institution is available through any of the following rating services registered
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating
Organization (NRSRO). NRSRO's can be located at the Web site http://www.sec.gov/answers/nrsro.htm
maintained by the SEC.
(e) The following format shall be used by the issuing financial institution to create an ILC:
___
[Issuing Financial Institution's Letterhead or Name and Address]
Issue Date _ ___

W912P822B0019
Page 19 of 62
IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT NO. ___
Account party's name ___ _
Account party's address ___ _
For Solicitation No. W912P822B0019_(for reference only)
TO:
US Army Corps of Engineers, New Orleans District
7400 Leake Ave
New Orleans, LA 70118
1. We hereby establish this irrevocable and transferable Letter of Credit in your favor for one or more drawings up
to United States $ ___ . This Letter of Credit is payable at [issuing financial institution's and, if any, confirming
financial institution's] office at [ ___ issuing financial institution's address and, if any, confirming financial
institution's address] and expires with our close of business on ___ , or any automatically extended expiration date.
2. We hereby undertake to honor your or the transferee's sight draft(s) drawn on the issuing or, if any, the
confirming financial institution, for all or any part of this credit if presented with this Letter of Credit and
confirmation, if any, at the office specified in paragraph 1 of this Letter of Credit on or before the expiration date or
any automatically extended expiration date.
3. [This paragraph is omitted if used as a bid guarantee, and subsequent paragraphs are renumbered.] It is a
condition of this Letter of Credit that it is deemed to be automatically extended without amendment for one year
from the expiration date hereof, or any future expiration date, unless at least 60 days prior to any expiration date, we
notify you or the transferee by registered mail, or other receipted means of delivery, that we elect not to consider this
Letter of Credit renewed for any such additional period. At the time we notify you, we also agree to notify the
account party (and confirming financial institution, if any) by the same means of delivery.
4. This Letter of Credit is transferable. Transfers and assignments of proceeds are to be effected without charge to
either the beneficiary or the transferee/assignee of proceeds. Such transfer or assignment shall be only at the written
direction of the Government (the beneficiary) in a form satisfactory to the issuing financial institution and the
confirming financial institution, if any.
5. This Letter of Credit is subject to the Uniform Customs and Practice (UCP) for Documentary Credits,
International Chamber of Commerce Publication No. ___ -- (Insert version in effect at the time
of ILC issuance, e.g., ``Publication 600, 2006 edition'') and to the extent not inconsistent therewith, to the laws of
___ --[State of confirming financial institution, if any, otherwise State of issuing financial institution].
6. If this credit expires during an interruption of business of this financial institution as described in Article 17 of the
UCP, the financial institution specifically agrees to effect payment if this credit is drawn against within 30 days after
the resumption of our business.
Sincerely,
___
[ ___ Issuing financial institution]
(f) The following format shall be used by the financial institution to confirm an ILC:
___ [Confirming Financial Institution's Letterhead or Name and Address]

W912P822B0019
Page 20 of 62
(Date) ___
Our Letter of Credit Advice Number ___
Beneficiary: ___ [U.S. Government agency]
Issuing Financial Institution: ___
Issuing Financial Institution's LC No.: ___
Gentlemen:
1. We hereby confirm the above indicated Letter of Credit, the original of which is attached, issued by ___ [name
of issuing financial institution] for drawings of up to United States dollars ___ _/U.S. $ ___ and expiring with our
close of business on ___ [the expiration date], or any automatically extended expiration date.
2. Draft(s) drawn under the Letter of Credit and this Confirmation are payable at our office located at ___ _.
3. We hereby undertake to honor sight draft(s) drawn under and presented with the Letter of Credit and this
Confirmation at our offices as specified herein.
4. [This paragraph is omitted if used as a bid guarantee, and subsequent paragraphs are renumbered.] It is a
condition of this confirmation that it be deemed automatically extended without amendment for one year from the
expiration date hereof, or any automatically extended expiration date, unless:
(a) At least 60 days prior to any such expiration date, we shall notify the Contracting Officer, or the transferee and
the issuing financial institution, by registered mail or other receipted means of delivery, that we elect not to consider
this confirmation extended for any such additional period; or
(b) The issuing financial institution shall have exercised its right to notify you or the transferee, the account party,
and ourselves, of its election not to extend the expiration date of the Letter of Credit.
5. This confirmation is subject to the Uniform Customs and Practice (UCP) for Documentary Credits, International
Chamber of Commerce Publication No. ___ -- (Insert version in effect at the time of ILC issuance, e.g.,
``Publication 600, 2006 edition'') and to the extent not inconsistent therewith, to the laws of ___ --[State of
confirming financial institution].
6. If this confirmation expires during an interruption of business of this financial institution as described in Article
17 of the UCP, we specifically agree to effect payment if this credit is drawn against within 30 days after the
resumption of our business.
Sincerely,
___
[Confirming financial institution]
(g) The following format shall be used by the Contracting Officer for a sight draft to draw on the Letter of Credit:
SIGHT DRAFT
___
[City, State]
(Date) ___

W912P822B0019
Page 21 of 62
[Name and address of financial institution]
Pay to the order of ___ [Beneficiary Agency] ___ the sum of United States ___ This draft is drawn under
Irrevocable Letter of Credit No. ___
___ [Beneficiary Agency]
By: ___
(End of clause)
52.233-2 SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)
(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an
agency, and copies of any protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served
on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from
Veronica Garner-Flint, Contracting Officer, US Army Corps of Engineers, ATTN: CEMVN-CT-E, 7400 Leake
Avenue, New Orleans, LA 70118-3651, facsimilie (504) 862-2889.
(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with
the GAO.
(End of provision)
52.236-27 SITE VISIT (CONSTRUCTION) (FEB 1995)
(a) The clauses at 52.236-2, Differing Site Conditions, and 52.236-3, Site Investigations and Conditions Affecting
the Work, will be included in any contract awarded as a result of this solicitation. Accordingly, offerors or quoters
are urged and expected to inspect the site where the work will be performed.
(b) Site visits may be arranged during normal duty hours by contacting:
Name: John Page
Address: 7400 Leak Ave, New Orleans, LA 70118
Telephone: 504-390-5869
(End of provision)
52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)
This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if
they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is
cautioned that the listed provisions may include blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its
quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions, the offeror may identify the provision by
paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the full text of a
solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es):
www.acquisition.gov

W912P822B0019
Page 22 of 62
(End of provision)

W912P822B0019
Page 23 of 62
Section 00600 - Reps and Certs
CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
52.204-16 Commercial and Government Entity Code Reporting AUG 2020
52.204-19 Incorporation by Reference of Representations and DEC 2014
Certifications.
252.203-7005 Representation Relating to Compensation of Former DoD NOV 2011
Officials
CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT
52.204-8 ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS (JAN 2022)
(a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 237990.
(2) The small business size standard is $39,500,000.
(3) The small business size standard for a concern that submits an offer, other than on a construction or service
acquisition, but proposes to furnish an end item that it did not itself manufacture, process, or produce is 500
employees if the acquisition--
(i) Is set aside for small business and has a value above the simplified acquisition threshold;
(ii) Uses the HUBZone price evaluation preference regardless of dollar value, unless the offeror waives the price
evaluation preference; or
(iii) Is an 8(a), HUBZone, service-disabled veteran-owned, economically disadvantaged women-owned, or women-
owned small business set-aside or sole-source award regardless of dollar value.
(b)(1) If the provision at 52.204-7, System for Award Management, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of
this provision applies.
(2) If the provision at 52.204-7, System for Award Management, is not included in this solicitation, and the Offeror
has an active registration in the System for Award Management (SAM), the Offeror may
choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and
certifications in the solicitation. The Offeror shall indicate which option applies by
checking one of the following boxes:
( ) Paragraph (d) applies.
( ) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications
in the solicitation.
(c) (1) The following representations or certifications in SAM are applicable to this solicitation as indicated:
(i) 52.203-2, Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-
fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless—
(A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in Part 13;

W912P822B0019
Page 24 of 62
(B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or
(C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation.
(ii) 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This
provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $150,000.
(iii) 52.203-18, Prohibition on Contracting with Entities that Require Certain Internal Confidentiality Agreements or
Statements--Representation. This provision applies to all solicitations.
(iv) 52.204-3, Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the provision at
52.204-7, System for Award Management.
(v) 52.204-5, Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that—
(A) Are not set aside for small business concerns;
(B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and
(C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.
(vi) 52.204-26, Covered Telecommunications Equipment or Services--Representation. This provision applies to all
solicitations.
(vii) 52.209-2, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations--Representation.
(viii) 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the
contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
(ix) 52.209-11, Representation by Corporations Regarding Delinquent Tax Liability or a Felony Conviction under
any Federal Law. This provision applies to all solicitations.
(x) 52.214-14, Place of Performance--Sealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in
which the place of performance is specified by the Government.
(xi) 52.215-6, Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is
specified by the Government.
(xii) 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations (Basic, Alternates I, and II). This provision applies to
solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.
(A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard.
(B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard.
(C) The provision with its Alternate II applies to solicitations that will result in a multiple-award contract with more
than one NAICS code assigned.
(xiii) 52.219-2, Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the
contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas.

W912P822B0019
Page 25 of 62
(xiv) 52.222-22, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the
clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity.
(xv) 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for
construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity.
(xvi) 52.222-38, Compliance with Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to
solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the
contract is not for acquisition of commercial products or commercial services.
(xvii) 52.223-1, Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or
specify the use of USDA-designated items; or include the clause at 52.223-2, Affirmative Procurement of Biobased
Products Under Service and Construction Contracts.
(xviii) 52.223-4, Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the
use of, EPA- designated items.
(xix) 52.223-22, Public Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Reduction Goals--Representation. This
provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at 52.204-7.)
(xx) 52.225-2, Buy American Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-1.
(xxi) 52.225-4, Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternates I, II, and
III.) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225- 3.
(A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies.
(B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies.
(C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $92,319, the provision with its Alternate II applies.
(D) If the acquisition value is $92,319 or more but is less than $100,000, the provision with its Alternate III applies.
(xxii) 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at
52.225-5.
(xxiii) 52.225-20, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan--Certification. This provision
applies to all solicitations.
(xxiv) 52.225-25, Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or Transactions Relating
to Iran—Representation and Certification. This provision applies to all solicitations.
(xxv) 52.226-2, Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision
applies to solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher
educational institutions.
(2) The following representations or certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer:
[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.]
(i) 52.204-17, Ownership or Control of Offeror.

W912P822B0019
Page 26 of 62
(ii) 52.204-20, Predecessor of Offeror.
(iii) 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products.
(iv) 52.222-48, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for
Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Certification.
(v) 52.222-52 Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Labor Standards to Contracts for Certain
Services--Certification.
(vi) 52.223-9, with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA-
Designated Products (Alternate I only).
(vii) 52.227-6, Royalty Information.
(A) Basic.
(B) Alternate I.
(viii) 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software.
(d) The Offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically in SAM accessed through
https://www.sam.gov. After reviewing the SAM information, the Offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the
representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in
paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate,
complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code
referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR
4.1201); except for the changes identified below [ offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause
number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and
are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FAR Clause Title Date Change
------------------------------------------------------------------------
------ ---------- ------ ------
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the
representations and certifications posted on SAM.
(End of provision)
52.204-24 REPRESENTATION REGARDING CERTAIN TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND VIDEO
SURVEILLANCE SERVICES OR EQUIPMENT (NOV 2021)
The Offeror shall not complete the representation at paragraph (d)(1) of this provision if the Offeror has represented
that it "does not provide covered telecommunications equipment or services as a part of its offered products or
services to the Government in the performance of any contract, subcontract, or other contractual instrument" in

W912P822B0019
Page 27 of 62
paragraph (c)(1) in the provision at 52.204-26, Covered Telecommunications Equipment or Services--
Representation, or in paragraph (v)(2)(i) of the provision at 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications-
Commercial Products and Commercial Services. The Offeror shall not complete the representation in paragraph
(d)(2) of this provision if the Offeror has represented that it "does not use covered telecommunications equipment or
services, or any equipment, system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services" in
paragraph (c)(2) of the provision at 52.204-26, or in paragraph (v)(2)(ii) of the provision at 52.212-3.
(a) Definitions. As used in this provision-
Backhaul, covered telecommunications equipment or services, critical technology, interconnection arrangements,
reasonable inquiry, roaming, and substantial or essential component have the meanings provided in the clause
52.204-25, Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or
Equipment.
(b) Prohibition.
(1) Section 889(a)(1)(A) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L.
115-232) prohibits the head of an executive agency on or after August 13, 2019, from procuring or obtaining, or
extending or renewing a contract to procure or obtain, any equipment, system, or service that uses covered
telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical
technology as part of any system. Nothing in the prohibition shall be construed to--
(i) Prohibit the head of an executive agency from procuring with an entity to provide a service that connects to the
facilities of a third-party, such as backhaul, roaming, or interconnection arrangements; or
(ii) Cover telecommunications equipment that cannot route or redirect user data traffic or cannot permit visibility
into any user data or packets that such equipment transmits or otherwise handles.
(2) Section 889(a)(1)(B) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L.
115-232) prohibits the head of an executive agency on or after August 13, 2020, from entering into a contract or
extending or renewing a contract with an entity that uses any equipment, system, or service that uses covered
telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical
technology as part of any system. This prohibition applies to the use of covered telecommunications equipment or
services, regardless of whether that use is in performance of work under a Federal contract. Nothing in the
prohibition shall be construed to--
(i) Prohibit the head of an executive agency from procuring with an entity to provide a service that connects to the
facilities of a third-party, such as backhaul, roaming, or interconnection arrangements; or
(ii) Cover telecommunications equipment that cannot route or redirect user data traffic or cannot permit visibility
into any user data or packets that such equipment transmits or otherwise handles.
(c) Procedures. The Offeror shall review the list of excluded parties in the System for Award Management (SAM)
(https://www.sam.gov) for entities excluded from receiving federal awards for "covered telecommunications
equipment or services."
(d) Representations. The Offeror represents that--
(1) It [ ___ ] will, [ ___ ] will not provide covered telecommunications equipment or services to the Government in
the performance of any contract, subcontract or other contractual instrument resulting from this solicitation. The
Offeror shall provide the additional disclosure information required at paragraph (e)(1) of this section if the Offeror
responds "will" in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; and
(2) After conducting a reasonable inquiry, for purposes of this representation, the Offeror represents that--

W912P822B0019
Page 28 of 62
It [ ___ ] does, [ ___ ] does not use covered telecommunications equipment or services, or use any equipment,
system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services. The Offeror shall provide the
additional disclosure information required at paragraph (e)(2) of this section if the Offeror responds "does" in
paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(e) Disclosures.
(1) Disclosure for the representation in paragraph (d)(1) of this provision. If the Offeror has responded "will" in the
representation in paragraph (d)(1) of this provision, the Offeror shall provide the following information as part of the
offer:
(i) For covered equipment--
(A) The entity that produced the covered telecommunications equipment (include entity name, unique entity
identifier, CAGE code, and whether the entity was the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) or a distributor, if
known);
(B) A description of all covered telecommunications equipment offered (include brand; model number, such as
OEM number, manufacturer part number, or wholesaler number; and item description, as applicable); and
(C) Explanation of the proposed use of covered telecommunications equipment and any factors relevant to
determining if such use would be permissible under the prohibition in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.
(ii) For covered services--
(A) If the service is related to item maintenance: A description of all covered telecommunications services offered
(include on the item being maintained: Brand; model number, such as OEM number, manufacturer part number, or
wholesaler number; and item description, as applicable); or
(B) If not associated with maintenance, the Product Service Code (PSC) of the service being provided; and
explanation of the proposed use of covered telecommunications services and any factors relevant to determining if
such use would be permissible under the prohibition in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.
(2) Disclosure for the representation in paragraph (d)(2) of this provision. If the Offeror has responded "does" in the
representation in paragraph (d)(2) of this provision, the Offeror shall provide the following information as part of the
offer:
(i) For covered equipment--
(A) The entity that produced the covered telecommunications equipment (include entity name, unique entity
identifier, CAGE code, and whether the entity was the OEM or a distributor, if known);
(B) A description of all covered telecommunications equipment offered (include brand; model number, such as
OEM number, manufacturer part number, or wholesaler number; and item description, as applicable); and
(C) Explanation of the proposed use of covered telecommunications equipment and any factors relevant to
determining if such use would be permissible under the prohibition in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision.
(ii) For covered services--
(A) If the service is related to item maintenance: A description of all covered telecommunications services offered
(include on the item being maintained: Brand; model number, such as OEM number, manufacturer part number, or
wholesaler number; and item description, as applicable); or

W912P822B0019
Page 29 of 62
(B) If not associated with maintenance, the PSC of the service being provided; and explanation of the proposed use
of covered telecommunications services and any factors relevant to determining if such use would be permissible
under the prohibition in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision.
(End of provision)
52.204-25 PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING FOR CERTAIN TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND VIDEO
SURVEILLANCE SERVICES OR EQUIPMENT (NOV 2021)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause--
Backhaul means intermediate links between the core network, or backbone network, and the small subnetworks at
the edge of the network (e.g., connecting cell phones/towers to the core telephone network). Backhaul can be
wireless (e.g., microwave) or wired (e.g., fiber optic, coaxial cable, Ethernet).
Covered foreign country means The People's Republic of China.
Covered telecommunications equipment or services means--
(1) Telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei Technologies Company or ZTE Corporation (or any
subsidiary or affiliate of such entities);
(2) For the purpose of public safety, security of Government facilities, physical security surveillance of critical
infrastructure, and other national security purposes, video surveillance and telecommunications equipment produced
by Hytera Communications Corporation, Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Company, or Dahua Technology
Company (or any subsidiary or affiliate of such entities);
(3) Telecommunications or video surveillance services provided by such entities or using such equipment; or
(4) Telecommunications or video surveillance equipment or services produced or provided by an entity that the
Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence or the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, reasonably believes to be an entity owned or controlled by, or otherwise connected to, the
government of a covered foreign country.
Critical technology means--
(1) Defense articles or defense services included on the United States Munitions List set forth in the International
Traffic in Arms Regulations under subchapter M of chapter I of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations;
(2) Items included on the Commerce Control List set forth in Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export
Administration Regulations under subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, and
controlled--
(i) Pursuant to multilateral regimes, including for reasons relating to national security, chemical and biological
weapons proliferation, nuclear nonproliferation, or missile technology; or
(ii) For reasons relating to regional stability or surreptitious listening;
(3) Specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology
covered by part 810 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to assistance to foreign atomic energy
activities);

W912P822B0019
Page 30 of 62
(4) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and material covered by part 110 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (relating
to export and import of nuclear equipment and material);
(5) Select agents and toxins covered by part 331 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, part 121 of title 9 of such
Code, or part 73 of title 42 of such Code; or
(6) Emerging and foundational technologies controlled pursuant to section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act
of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4817).
Interconnection arrangements means arrangements governing the physical connection of two or more networks to
allow the use of another's network to hand off traffic where it is ultimately delivered (e.g., connection of a customer
of telephone provider A to a customer of telephone company B) or sharing data and other information resources.
Reasonable inquiry means an inquiry designed to uncover any information in the entity's possession about the
identity of the producer or provider of covered telecommunications equipment or services used by the entity that
excludes the need to include an internal or third-party audit.
Roaming means cellular communications services (e.g., voice, video, data) received from a visited network when
unable to connect to the facilities of the home network either because signal coverage is too weak or because traffic
is too high.
Substantial or essential component means any component necessary for the proper function or performance of a
piece of equipment, system, or service.
(b) Prohibition.
(1) Section 889(a)(1)(A) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L.
115-232) prohibits the head of an executive agency on or after August 13, 2019, from procuring or obtaining, or
extending or renewing a contract to procure or obtain, any equipment, system, or service that uses covered
telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical
technology as part of any system. The Contractor is prohibited from providing to the Government any equipment,
system, or service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential
component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any system, unless an exception at paragraph (c) of this
clause applies or the covered telecommunication equipment or services are covered by a waiver described in FAR
4.2104.
(2) Section 889(a)(1)(B) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L.
115-232) prohibits the head of an executive agency on or after August 13, 2020, from entering into a contract, or
extending or renewing a contract, with an entity that uses any equipment, system, or service that uses covered
telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical
technology as part of any system, unless an exception at paragraph (c) of this clause applies or the covered
telecommunication equipment or services are covered by a waiver described in FAR 4.2104. This prohibition
applies to the use of covered telecommunications equipment or services, regardless of whether that use is in
performance of work under a Federal contract.
(c) Exceptions. This clause does not prohibit contractors from providing--
(1) A service that connects to the facilities of a third-party, such as backhaul, roaming, or interconnection
arrangements; or
(2) Telecommunications equipment that cannot route or redirect user data traffic or permit visibility into any user
data or packets that such equipment transmits or otherwise handles.
(d) Reporting requirement.

W912P822B0019
Page 31 of 62
(1) In the event the Contractor identifies covered telecommunications equipment or services used as a substantial or
essential component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any system, during contract performance, or
the Contractor is notified of such by a subcontractor at any tier or by any other source, the Contractor shall report the
information in paragraph (d)(2) of this clause to the Contracting Officer, unless elsewhere in this contract are
established procedures for reporting the information; in the case of the Department of Defense, the Contractor shall
report to the website at https://dibnet.dod.mil. For indefinite delivery contracts, the Contractor shall report to the
Contracting Officer for the indefinite delivery contract and the Contracting Officer(s) for any affected order or, in
the case of the Department of Defense, identify both the indefinite delivery contract and any affected orders in the
report provided at https://dibnet.dod.mil.
(2) The Contractor shall report the following information pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this clause:
(i) Within one business day from the date of such identification or notification: The contract number; the order
number(s), if applicable; supplier name; supplier unique entity identifier (if known); supplier Commercial and
Government Entity (CAGE) code (if known); brand; model number (original equipment manufacturer number,
manufacturer part number, or wholesaler number); item description; and any readily available information about
mitigation actions undertaken or recommended.
(ii) Within 10 business days of submitting the information in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this clause: Any further available
information about mitigation actions undertaken or recommended. In addition, the Contractor shall describe the
efforts it undertook to prevent use or submission of covered telecommunications equipment or services, and any
additional efforts that will be incorporated to prevent future use or submission of covered telecommunications
equipment or services.
(e) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e) and excluding
paragraph (b)(2), in all subcontracts and other contractual instruments, including subcontracts for the acquisition of
commercial products or commercial services.
(End of clause)
52.204-26 COVERED TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OR SERVICES--REPRESENTATION (OCT
2020)
(a) Definitions. As used in this provision, “covered telecommunications equipment or services” and "reasonable
inquiry" have the meaning provided in the clause 52.204-25, Prohibition on Contracting for Certain
Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment.
(b) Procedures. The Offeror shall review the list of excluded parties in the System for Award Management (SAM)
(https://www.sam.gov) for entities excluded from receiving federal awards for “covered telecommunications
equipment or services”.
(c) Representations.
(1) The Offeror represents that it [ ___ ] does, [ ___ ] does not provide covered telecommunications equipment or
services as a part of its offered products or services to the Government in the performance of any contract,
subcontract, or other contractual instrument.
(2) After conducting a reasonable inquiry for purposes of this representation, the offeror represents that it [ ___ ]
does, [ ___ ] does not use covered telecommunications equipment or services, or any equipment, system, or service
that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services.
(End of provision)

W912P822B0019
Page 32 of 62
52.209-12 CERTIFICATION REGARDING TAX MATTERS (OCT 2020)
(a) This provision implements section 523 of Division B of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2015 (Pub. L. 113-235), and similar provisions, if contained in subsequent appropriations acts.
(b) If the Offeror is proposing a total contract price that will exceed $5.5 million (including options), the Offeror
shall certify that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, it--
(1) Has [ ] filed all Federal tax returns required during the three years preceding the certification;
(2) Has not [ ] been convicted of a criminal offense under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
(3) Has not [ ], more than 90 days prior to certification, been notified of any unpaid Federal tax assessment for
which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the subject of an installment agreement or offer in
compromise that has been approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is not in default, or the assessment is the
subject of a non-frivolous administrative or judicial proceeding.
(End of provision)
252.204-7007 ALTERNATE A, ANNUAL REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS (MAY 2021)
Substitute the following paragraphs (b), (d) and (e) for paragraphs (b) and (d) of the provision at FAR 52.204-8:
(b)(1) If the provision at FAR 52.204-7, System for Award Management, is included in this solicitation, paragraph
(e) of this provision applies.
(2) If the provision at FAR 52.204-7, System for Award Management, is not included in this solicitation, and the
Offeror has an active registration in the System for Award Management (SAM), the Offeror may
choose to use paragraph (e) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and
certifications in the solicitation. The Offeror shall indicate which option applies by
checking one of the following boxes:
__ (i) Paragraph (e) applies.
__ (ii) Paragraph (e) does not apply and the Offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications
in the solicitation.
(d)(1) The following representations or certifications in the SAM database are applicable to this solicitation as
indicated:
(i) 252.204-7016, Covered Defense Telecommunications Equipment or Services--Representation. Applies to all
solicitations.
(ii) 252.216-7008, Economic Price Adjustment--Wage Rates or Material Prices Controlled by a Foreign
Government. Applies to solicitations for fixed-price supply and service contracts when the contract is to be
performed wholly or in part in a foreign country, and a foreign government controls wage rates or material prices
and may during contract performance impose a mandatory change in wages or prices of materials.

W912P822B0019
Page 33 of 62
(iii) 252.225-7042, Authorization to Perform. Applies to all solicitations when performance will be wholly or in part
in a foreign country.
(iv) 252.225-7049, Prohibition on Acquisition of Certain Foreign Commercial Satellite Services--Representations.
Applies to solicitations for the acquisition of commercial satellite services.
(v) 252.225-7050, Disclosure of Ownership or Control by the Government of a Country that is a State Sponsor of
Terrorism. Applies to all solicitations expected to result in contracts of $150,000 or more.
(vi) 252.229-7012, Tax Exemptions (Italy)--Representation. Applies to solicitations when contract performance will
be in Italy.
(vii) 252.229-7013, Tax Exemptions (Spain)--Representation. Applies to solicitations when contract performance
will be in Spain.
(viii) 252.247-7022, Representation of Extent of Transportation by Sea. Applies to all solicitations except those for
direct purchase of ocean transportation services or those with an anticipated value at or below the simplified
acquisition threshold.
(2) The following representations or certifications in SAM are applicable to this solicitation as indicated by the
Contracting Officer: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.]
____ (i) 252.209-7002, Disclosure of Ownership or Control by a Foreign Government.
____ (ii) 252.225-7000, Buy American--Balance of Payments Program Certificate.
____ (iii) 252.225-7020, Trade Agreements Certificate.
____ Use with Alternate I.
____ (iv) 252.225-7031, Secondary Arab Boycott of Israel.
____ (v) 252.225-7035, Buy American--Free Trade Agreements--Balance of Payments Program Certificate.
____ Use with Alternate I.
____ Use with Alternate II.
____ Use with Alternate III.
____ Use with Alternate IV.
____ Use with Alternate V.
____ (vi) 252.226-7002, Representation for Demonstration Project for Contractors Employing Persons with
Disabilities.
____ (vii) 252.232-7015, Performance-Based Payments--Representation.
(e) The Offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the SAM website at
https://www.acquisition.gov/. After reviewing the SAM database information, the Offeror verifies by submission of
the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as
indicated in FAR 52.204-8(c) and paragraph (d) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12
months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard

W912P822B0019
Page 34 of 62
applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer, and are incorporated in
this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [Offeror to insert changes,
identifying change by provision number, title, date____]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s)
are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.
FAR/DFARS provision Title Date Change
No.
Any changes provided by the Offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the
representations and certifications located in the SAM database.
(End of provision)

W912P822B0019
Page 35 of 62
Section 00700 - Contract Clauses
CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
52.202-1 Definitions JUN 2020
52.203-3 Gratuities APR 1984
52.203-5 Covenant Against Contingent Fees MAY 2014
52.203-7 Anti-Kickback Procedures JUN 2020
52.203-8 Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or MAY 2014
Improper Activity
52.203-10 Price Or Fee Adjustment For Illegal Or Improper Activity MAY 2014
52.203-12 Limitation On Payments To Influence Certain Federal JUN 2020
Transactions
52.203-17 Contractor Employee Whistleblower Rights and Requirement JUN 2020
To Inform Employees of Whistleblower Rights
52.203-19 Prohibition on Requiring Certain Internal Confidentiality JAN 2017
Agreements or Statements
52.204-4 Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber MAY 2011
Content Paper
52.204-13 System for Award Management Maintenance OCT 2018
52.204-18 Commercial and Government Entity Code Maintenance AUG 2020
52.209-6 Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting DEC 2021
With Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for
Debarment
52.211-13 Time Extensions SEP 2000
52.211-18 Variation in Estimated Quantity APR 1984
52.219-8 Utilization of Small Business Concerns OCT 2018
52.219-9 Alt I Small Business Subcontracting Plan (NOV 2021) Alternate I NOV 2016
52.219-14 Limitations On Subcontracting SEP 2021
52.222-1 Notice To The Government Of Labor Disputes FEB 1997
52.222-4 Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards - Overtime MAY 2018
Compensation
52.222-6 Construction Wage Rate Requirements AUG 2018
52.222-7 Withholding of Funds MAY 2014
52.222-8 Payrolls and Basic Records JUL 2021
52.222-9 Apprentices and Trainees JUL 2005
52.222-10 Compliance with Copeland Act Requirements FEB 1988
52.222-11 Subcontracts (Labor Standards) MAY 2014
52.222-12 Contract Termination-Debarment MAY 2014
52.222-13 Compliance With Construction Wage Rate Requirements and MAY 2014
Related Regulations
52.222-14 Disputes Concerning Labor Standards FEB 1988
52.222-15 Certification of Eligibility MAY 2014
52.222-21 Prohibition Of Segregated Facilities APR 2015
52.222-26 Equal Opportunity SEP 2016
52.222-27 Affirmative Action Compliance Requirements for APR 2015
Construction
52.222-35 Equal Opportunity for Veterans JUN 2020
52.222-36 Equal Opportunity for Workers with Disabilities JUN 2020
52.222-37 Employment Reports on Veterans JUN 2020
52.222-40 Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor DEC 2010
Relations Act
52.222-50 Combating Trafficking in Persons DEC 2021
52.222-54 Employment Eligibility Verification DEC 2021

W912P822B0019
Page 36 of 62
52.222-55 Minimum Wages Under Executive Order 13658 JAN 2022
52.222-62 Paid Sick Leave Under Executive Order 13706 JAN 2017
52.223-2 Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service SEP 2013
and Construction Contracts
52.223-18 Encouraging Contractor Policies To Ban Text Messaging JUN 2020
While Driving
52.225-13 Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases DEC 2021
52.228-2 Additional Bond Security OCT 1997
52.228-11 Individual Surety--Pledge of Assets FEB 2021
52.228-11 (Dev) Individual Surety--Pledge of Assets (DEVIATION 2020- FEB 2021
O0016)
52.228-12 Prospective Subcontractor Requests for Bonds MAY 2014
52.228-15 Performance and Payment Bonds--Construction JUN 2020
52.228-15 (Dev) Performance and Payment Bonds-Construction. (Deviation JUN 2020
2020-O0016)
52.229-3 Federal, State And Local Taxes FEB 2013
52.232-5 Payments under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts MAY 2014
52.232-17 Interest MAY 2014
52.232-23 Assignment Of Claims MAY 2014
52.232-27 Prompt Payment for Construction Contracts JAN 2017
52.232-33 Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--System for Award OCT 2018
Management
52.232-39 Unenforceability of Unauthorized Obligations JUN 2013
52.232-40 Providing Accelerated Payments to Small Business DEC 2021
Subcontractors
52.233-1 Disputes MAY 2014
52.233-3 Protest After Award AUG 1996
52.233-4 Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim OCT 2004
52.236-2 Differing Site Conditions APR 1984
52.236-3 Site Investigation and Conditions Affecting the Work APR 1984
52.236-5 Material and Workmanship APR 1984
52.236-6 Superintendence by the Contractor APR 1984
52.236-7 Permits and Responsibilities NOV 1991
52.236-8 Other Contracts APR 1984
52.236-9 Protection of Existing Vegetation, Structures, Equipment, APR 1984
Utilities, and Improvements
52.236-10 Operations and Storage Areas APR 1984
52.236-11 Use and Possession Prior to Completion APR 1984
52.236-12 Cleaning Up APR 1984
52.236-13 Alt I Accident Prevention (Nov 1991) - Alternate I NOV 1991
52.236-16 Quantity Surveys APR 1984
52.236-21 Specifications and Drawings for Construction FEB 1997
52.236-26 Preconstruction Conference FEB 1995
52.242-5 Payments to Small Business Subcontractors JAN 2017
52.242-13 Bankruptcy JUL 1995
52.242-14 Suspension of Work APR 1984
52.242-15 Stop-Work Order AUG 1989
52.242-17 Government Delay Of Work APR 1984
52.243-1 Changes--Fixed Price AUG 1987
52.243-4 Changes JUN 2007
52.244-2 Subcontracts JUN 2020
52.244-6 Subcontracts for Commercial Products and Commercial JAN 2022
Services
52.249-2 Alt I Termination for Convenience of the Government (Fixed- SEP 1996
Price) (Apr 2012) - Alternate I

W912P822B0019
Page 37 of 62
52.249-10 Default (Fixed-Price Construction) APR 1984
52.253-1 Computer Generated Forms JAN 1991
252.201-7000 Contracting Officer's Representative DEC 1991
252.203-7000 Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD SEP 2011
Officials
252.203-7001 Prohibition On Persons Convicted of Fraud or Other Defense-DEC 2008
Contract-Related Felonies
252.203-7002 Requirement to Inform Employees of Whistleblower Rights SEP 2013
252.203-7003 Agency Office of the Inspector General AUG 2019
252.204-7003 Control Of Government Personnel Work Product APR 1992
252.204-7006 Billing Instructions OCT 2005
252.204-7015 Notice of Authorized Disclosure of Information for Litigation MAY 2016
Support
252.205-7000 Provision Of Information To Cooperative Agreement Holders DEC 1991
252.209-7004 Subcontracting With Firms That Are Owned or Controlled By MAY 2019
The Government of a Country that is a State Sponsor of
Terrorism
252.219-7003 Small Business Subcontracting Plan (DOD Contracts) DEC 2019
252.222-7006 Restrictions on the Use of Mandatory Arbitration Agreements DEC 2010
252.223-7004 Drug Free Work Force SEP 1988
252.225-7001 Buy American And Balance Of Payments Program-- Basic DEC 2017
252.225-7002 Qualifying Country Sources As Subcontractors DEC 2017
252.225-7048 Export-Controlled Items JUN 2013
252.226-7001 Utilization of Indian Organizations and Indian-Owned APR 2019
Economic Enterprises, and Native Hawaiian Small Business
Concerns
252.232-7010 Levies on Contract Payments DEC 2006
252.236-7000 Modification Proposals-Price Breakdown DEC 1991
252.242-7004 Material Management And Accounting System MAY 2011
252.242-7006 Accounting System Administration FEB 2012
252.243-7001 Pricing Of Contract Modifications DEC 1991
252.243-7002 Requests for Equitable Adjustment DEC 2012
252.244-7000 Subcontracts for Commercial Items JAN 2021
CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT
52.203-13 CONTRACTOR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND CONDUCT (NOV 2021)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause--
Agent means any individual, including a director, an officer, an employee, or an independent Contractor, authorized
to act on behalf of the organization.
Full cooperation—
(1) Means disclosure to the Government of the information sufficient for law enforcement to identify the nature and
extent of the offense and the individuals responsible for the conduct. It includes providing timely and complete
response to Government auditors' and investigators' request for documents and access to employees with
information;
(2) Does not foreclose any Contractor rights arising in law, the FAR, or the terms of the contract. It does not require-
-

W912P822B0019
Page 38 of 62
(i) A Contractor to waive its attorney-client privilege or the protections afforded by the attorney work product
doctrine; or
(ii) Any officer, director, owner, or employee of the Contractor, including a sole proprietor, to waive his or her
attorney client privilege or Fifth Amendment rights; and
(3) Does not restrict a Contractor from--
(i) Conducting an internal investigation; or
(ii) Defending a proceeding or dispute arising under the contract or related to a potential or disclosed violation.
Principal means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory
responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business
segment; and similar positions).
Subcontract means any contract entered into by a subcontractor to furnish supplies or services for performance of a
prime contract or a subcontract.
Subcontractor means any supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm that furnished supplies or services to or for a prime
contractor or another subcontractor.
United States means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.
(b) Code of business ethics and conduct. (1) Within 30 days after contract award, unless the Contracting Officer
establishes a longer time period, the Contractor shall--
(i) Have a written code of business ethics and conduct;
(ii) Make a copy of the code available to each employee engaged in performance of the contract.
(2) The Contractor shall--
(i) Exercise due diligence to prevent and detect criminal conduct; and
(ii) Otherwise promote an organizational culture that encourages ethical conduct and a commitment to compliance
with the law.
(3)(i) The Contractor shall timely disclose, in writing, to the agency Office of the Inspector General (OIG), with a
copy to the Contracting Officer, whenever, in connection with the award, performance, or closeout of this contract
or any subcontract thereunder, the Contractor has credible evidence that a principal, employee, agent, or
subcontractor of the Contractor has committed--
(A) A violation of Federal criminal law involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, or gratuity violations found in
Title 18 of the United States Code; or
(B) A violation of the civil False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729-3733).
(ii) The Government, to the extent permitted by law and regulation, will safeguard and treat information obtained
pursuant to the Contractor's disclosure as confidential where the information has been marked “confidential” or
“proprietary” by the company. To the extent permitted by law and regulation, such information will not be released
by the Government to the public pursuant to a Freedom of Information Act request, 5 U.S.C. Section 552, without
prior notification to the Contractor. The Government may transfer documents provided by the Contractor to any
department or agency within the Executive Branch if the information relates to matters within the organization's
jurisdiction.

W912P822B0019
Page 39 of 62
(iii) If the violation relates to an order against a Governmentwide acquisition contract, a multi-agency contract, a
multiple-award schedule contract such as the Federal Supply Schedule, or any other procurement instrument
intended for use by multiple agencies, the Contractor shall notify the OIG of the ordering agency and the IG of the
agency responsible for the basic contract.
(c) Business ethics awareness and compliance program and internal control system. This paragraph (c) does not
apply if the Contractor has represented itself as a small business concern pursuant to the award of this contract or if
this contract is for the acquisition of a commercial product or commercial service as defined at FAR 2.101. The
Contractor shall establish the following within 90 days after contract award, unless the Contracting Officer
establishes a longer time period:
(1) An ongoing business ethics awareness and compliance program.
(i) This program shall include reasonable steps to communicate periodically and in a practical manner the
Contractor's standards and procedures and other aspects of the Contractor's business ethics awareness and
compliance program and internal control system, by conducting effective training programs and otherwise
disseminating information appropriate to an individual's respective roles and responsibilities.
(ii) The training conducted under this program shall be provided to the Contractor's principals and employees, and as
appropriate, the Contractor's agents and subcontractors.
(2) An internal control system.
(i) The Contractor's internal control system shall--
(A) Establish standards and procedures to facilitate timely discovery of improper conduct in connection with
Government contracts; and
(B) Ensure corrective measures are promptly instituted and carried out.
(ii) At a minimum, the Contractor's internal control system shall provide for the following:
(A) Assignment of responsibility at a sufficiently high level and adequate resources to ensure effectiveness of the
business ethics awareness and compliance program and internal control system.
(B) Reasonable efforts not to include an individual as a principal, whom due diligence would have exposed as
having engaged in conduct that is in conflict with the Contractor's code of business ethics and conduct.
(C) Periodic reviews of company business practices, procedures, policies, and internal controls for compliance with
the Contractor's code of business ethics and conduct and the special requirements of Government contracting,
including--
(1) Monitoring and auditing to detect criminal conduct;
(2) Periodic evaluation of the effectiveness of the business ethics awareness and compliance program and internal
control system, especially if criminal conduct has been detected; and
(3) Periodic assessment of the risk of criminal conduct, with appropriate steps to design, implement, or modify the
business ethics awareness and compliance program and the internal control system as necessary to reduce the risk of
criminal conduct identified through this process.
(D) An internal reporting mechanism, such as a hotline, which allows for anonymity or confidentiality, by which
employees may report suspected instances of improper conduct, and instructions that encourage employees to make
such reports.

W912P822B0019
Page 40 of 62
(E) Disciplinary action for improper conduct or for failing to take reasonable steps to prevent or detect improper
conduct.
(F) Timely disclosure, in writing, to the agency OIG, with a copy to the Contracting Officer, whenever, in
connection with the award, performance, or closeout of any Government contract performed by the Contractor or a
subcontractor thereunder, the Contractor has credible evidence that a principal, employee, agent, or subcontractor of
the Contractor has committed a violation of Federal criminal law involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, or
gratuity violations found in Title 18 U.S.C. or a violation of the civil False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729-3733).
(1) If a violation relates to more than one Government contract, the Contractor may make the disclosure to the
agency OIG and Contracting Officer responsible for the largest dollar value contract impacted by the violation.
(2) If the violation relates to an order against a Governmentwide acquisition contract, a multi-agency contract, a
multiple-award schedule contract such as the Federal Supply Schedule, or any other procurement instrument
intended for use by multiple agencies, the contractor shall notify the OIG of the ordering agency and the IG of the
agency responsible for the basic contract, and the respective agencies' contracting officers.
(3) The disclosure requirement for an individual contract continues until at least 3 years after final payment on the
contract.
(4) The Government will safeguard such disclosures in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this clause.
(G) Full cooperation with any Government agencies responsible for audits, investigations, or corrective actions.
(d) Subcontracts.
(1) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in subcontracts that
exceed the threshold specified in FAR 3.1004(a) on the date of subcontract award and a performance period of more
than 120 days.
(2) In altering this clause to identify the appropriate parties, all disclosures of violation of the civil False Claims Act
or of Federal criminal law shall be directed to the agency Office of the Inspector General, with a copy to the
Contracting Officer.
(End of clause)
52.211-10 COMMENCEMENT, PROSECUTION, AND COMPLETION OF WORK (APR 1984)
The Contractor shall be required to
(a) commence work under this contract 10 calendar days after the date the Contractor receives the notice to proceed,
(b) prosecute the work diligently, and
(c) complete the entire work ready for use not later than 80 calendardays after the date of receipt of notice to
proceed. The time stated for completion shall include final cleanup of the premises.
(End of clause)
NOTE: The Contractor is advised that the time allowed for completion of the
work (80 calendar days) reflects the Government's best estimate of the shortest

W912P822B0019
Page 41 of 62
reasonable performance period. The Contractor shall be obligated to make any
and all arrangements necessary (multiple crews, overtime, concurrent
operations, etc.) to complete the work within the available time period -- such
arrangements shall not constitute grounds for an equitable adjustment.
52.211-12 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES--CONSTRUCTION (SEP 2000)
(a) If the Contractor fails to complete the work within the time specified in the contract, the Contractor shall pay
liquidated damages to the Government in the amount of $3,250.00 for each calendar day of delay until the work is
completed or accepted.
(b) If the Government terminates the Contractor's right to proceed, liquidated damages will continue to accrue until
the work is completed. These liquidated damages are in addition to excess costs of repurchase under the Termination
clause.
(End of clause)
52.219-4 NOTICE OF PRICE EVALUATION PREFERENCE FOR HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS
CONCERNS (SEP 2021)
(a) Evaluation preference.
(1) Offers will be evaluated by adding a factor of 10 percent to the price of all offers, except--
(i) Offers from HUBZone small business concerns that have not waived the evaluation preference; and
(ii) Otherwise successful offers from small business concerns.
(2) The factor of 10 percent shall be applied on a line item basis or to any group of items on which award may be
made. Other evaluation factors described in the solicitation shall be applied before application of the factor.
(3) When the two highest rated offerors are a HUBZone small business concern and a large business, and the
evaluated offer of the HUBZone small business concern is equal to the evaluated offer of the large business after
considering the price evaluation preference, award will be made to the HUBZone small business concern.
(b) Waiver of evaluation preference. A HUBZone small business concern may elect to waive the evaluation
preference, in which case the factor will be added to its offer for evaluation purposes.
___ Offeror elects to waive the evaluation preference.
(c) Notice. The HUBZone small business offeror acknowledges that a prospective HUBZone awardee must be a
HUBZone small business concern at the time of award of this contract. The HUBZone offeror shall provide the
Contracting Officer a copy of the notice required by 13 CFR 126.501 if material changes occur before contract
award
that could affect its HUBZone eligibility. If the apparently successful HUBZone offeror is not a HUBZone small
business concern at the time of award of this contract, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next
otherwise successful HUBZone small business concern or other offeror.
(End of clause)

W912P822B0019
Page 42 of 62
52.219-14 LIMITATIONS ON SUBCONTRACTING (SEP 2021)
(a) This clause does not apply to the unrestricted portion of a partial set-aside.
(b) Definition. Similarly situated entity, as used in this clause, means a first-tier subcontractor, including an
independent contractor, that--
(1) Has the same small business program status as that which qualified the prime contractor for the award (e.g., for a
small business set-aside contract, any small business concern, without regard to its socioeconomic status); and
(2) Is considered small for the size standard under the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)
code the prime contractor assigned to the subcontract.
(c) Applicability. This clause applies only to--
(1) Contracts that have been set aside for any of the small business concerns identified in 19.000(a)(3);
(2) Part or parts of a multiple-award contract that have been set aside for any of the small business concerns
identified in 19.000(a)(3);
(3) Contracts that have been awarded on a sole-source basis in accordance with subparts 19.8, 19.13, 19.14, and
19.15;
(4) Orders expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and that are--
(i) Set aside for small business concerns under multiple-award contracts, as described in 8.405-5 and
16.505(b)(2)(i)(F); or
(ii) Issued directly to small business concerns under multiple-award contracts as described in 19.504(c)(1)(ii);
(5) Orders, regardless of dollar value, that are--
(i) Set aside in accordance with subparts 19.8, 19.13, 19.14, or 19.15 under multiple-award contracts, as described in
8.405-5 and 16.505(b)(2)(i)(F); or
(ii) Issued directly to concerns that qualify for the programs described in subparts 19.8, 19.13, 19.14, or 19.15 under
multiple-award contracts, as described in 19.504(c)(1)(ii); and
(6) Contracts using the HUBZone price evaluation preference to award to a HUBZone small business concern unless
the concern waived the evaluation preference.
(d) Independent contractors. An independent contractor shall be considered a subcontractor.
(e) Limitations on subcontracting. By submission of an offer and execution of a contract, the Contractor agrees that
in performance of a contract assigned a North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for--
(1) Services (except construction), it will not pay more than 50 percent of the amount paid by the Government for
contract performance to subcontractors that are not similarly situated entities. Any work that a similarly situated
entity further subcontracts will count towards the prime contractor's 50 percent subcontract amount that cannot be
exceeded. When a contract includes both services and supplies, the 50 percent limitation shall apply only to the
service portion of the contract;

W912P822B0019
Page 43 of 62
(2) Supplies (other than procurement from a nonmanufacturer of such supplies), it will not pay more than 50 percent
of the amount paid by the Government for contract performance, excluding the cost of materials, to subcontractors
that are not similarly situated entities. Any work that a similarly situated entity further subcontracts will count
towards the prime contractor's 50 percent subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded. When a contract includes
both supplies and services, the 50 percent limitation shall apply only to the supply portion of the contract;
(3) General construction, it will not pay more than 85 percent of the amount paid by the Government for contract
performance, excluding the cost of materials, to subcontractors that are not similarly situated entities. Any work that
a similarly situated entity further subcontracts will count towards the prime contractor's 85 percent subcontract
amount that cannot be exceeded; or
(4) Construction by special trade contractors, it will not pay more than 75 percent of the amount paid by the
Government for contract performance, excluding the cost of materials, to subcontractors that are not similarly
situated entities. Any work that a similarly situated entity further subcontracts will count towards the prime
contractor's 75 percent subcontract amount that cannot be exceeded.
(f) The Contractor shall comply with the limitations on subcontracting as follows:
(1) For contracts, in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1), (2), (3) and (6) of this clause--
[Contracting Officer check as appropriate.]
XX By the end of the base term of the contract and then by the end of each subsequent option period; or
___ By the end of the performance period for each order issued under the contract.
(2) For orders, in accordance with paragraphs (c)(4) and (5) of this clause, by the end of the performance period for
the order.
(g) A joint venture agrees that, in the performance of the contract, the applicable percentage specified in paragraph
(e) of this clause will be performed by the aggregate of the joint venture participants.
(End of clause)
52.225-9 BUY AMERICAN—CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (NOV 2021)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause--
Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item—
(1) Means any item of supply (including construction material) that is--
(i) A commercial product (as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition of "commercial product" at Federal
Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 2.101);
(ii) Sold in substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and
(iii) Offered to the Government, under a contract or subcontract at any tier, without modification, in the same form
in which it is sold in the commercial marketplace; and
(2) Does not include bulk cargo, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 40102(4) such as agricultural products and petroleum
products.

W912P822B0019
Page 44 of 62
Component means an article, material, or supply incorporated directly into a construction material.
Construction material means an article, material, or supply brought to the construction site by the Contractor or a
subcontractor for incorporation into the building or work. The term also includes an item brought to the site
preassembled from articles, materials, or supplies. However, emergency life safety systems, such as emergency
lighting, fire alarm, and audio evacuation systems, that are discrete systems incorporated into a public building or
work and that are produced as complete systems, are evaluated as a single and distinct construction material
regardless of when or how the individual parts or components of those systems are delivered to the construction site.
Materials purchased directly by the Government are supplies, not construction material.
Cost of components means--
(1) For components purchased by the Contractor, the acquisition cost, including transportation costs to the place of
incorporation into the construction material (whether or not such costs are paid to a domestic firm), and any
applicable duty (whether or not a duty-free entry certificate is issued); or
(2) For components manufactured by the Contractor, all costs associated with the manufacture of the component,
including transportation costs as described in paragraph (1) of this definition, plus allocable overhead costs, but
excluding profit. Cost of components does not include any costs associated with the
manufacture of the construction material.
Domestic construction material means--
(1) For construction material that does not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both-
(i) An unmanufactured construction material mined or produced in the United States; or
(ii) A construction material manufactured in the United States, if--
(A) The cost of its components mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States exceeds 55 percent of the
cost of all its components. Components of foreign origin of the same class or kind for which nonavailability
determinations have been made are treated as domestic. Components of unknown origin are treated as foreign; or
(B) The construction material is a COTS item; or
(2) For construction material that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both, a
construction material manufactured in the United States if the cost of foreign iron and steel constitutes less than 5
percent of the cost of all components used in such construction material. The cost of foreign iron and steel includes
but is not limited to the cost of foreign iron or steel mill products (such as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, or sheet),
castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture of the construction material and a good faith estimate of the cost of
all foreign iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners. Iron or steel components of unknown origin are
treated as foreign. If the construction material contains multiple components, the cost of all the materials used in
such construction material is calculated in accordance with the definition of "cost of components".
Fastener means a hardware device that mechanically joins or affixes two or more objects together. Examples of
fasteners are nuts, bolts, pins, rivets, nails, clips, and screws.
Foreign construction material means a construction material other than a domestic construction material.
Foreign iron and steel means iron or steel products not produced in the United States. Produced in the United States
means that all manufacturing processes of the iron or steel must take place in the United States, from the initial
melting stage through the application of coatings, except metallurgical processes involving refinement of steel
additives. The origin of the elements of the iron or steel is not relevant to the determination of whether it is
domestic or foreign.

W912P822B0019
Page 45 of 62
Predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both means that the cost of the iron and steel content exceeds 50
percent of the total cost of all its components. The cost of iron and steel is the cost of the iron or steel mill products
(such as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture of the product and a
good faith estimate of the cost of iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners.
Steel means an alloy that includes at least 50 percent iron, between 0.02 and 2 percent carbon, and may include other
elements.
United States means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.
(b) Domestic preference.
(1) This clause implements 41 U.S.C. chapter 83, Buy American, by providing a preference for domestic
construction material. In accordance with 41 U.S.C. 1907, the domestic content test of the Buy American statute is
waived for construction material that is a COTS item, except that for construction material that consists wholly or
predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both, the domestic content test is applied only to the iron and
steel content of the construction materials, excluding COTS fasteners. (See FAR 12.505(a)(2)). The Contractor shall
use only domestic construction material in performing this contract, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and
(b)(3) of this clause.
(2) This requirement does not apply to information technology that is a commercial product or to the construction
materials or components listed by the Government as follows:
None
(3) The Contracting Officer may add other foreign construction material to the list in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause
if the Government determines that
(i) The cost of domestic construction material would be unreasonable. The cost of a particular domestic construction
material subject to the requirements of the Buy American Act is unreasonable when the cost of such material
exceeds the cost of foreign material by more than 20 percent;
(ii) The application of the restriction of the Buy American Act to a particular construction material would be
impracticable or inconsistent with the public interest; or
(iii) The construction material is not mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States in sufficient and
reasonably available commercial quantities of a satisfactory quality.
(c) Request for determination of inapplicability of the Buy American Act. (1)(i) Any Contractor request to use
foreign construction material in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this clause shall include adequate information
for Government evaluation of the request, including--
(A) A description of the foreign and domestic construction materials;
(B) Unit of measure;
(C) Quantity;
(D) Price;
(E) Time of delivery or availability;
(F) Location of the construction project;

W912P822B0019
Page 46 of 62
(G) Name and address of the proposed supplier; and
(H) A detailed justification of the reason for use of foreign construction materials cited in accordance with paragraph
(b)(3) of this clause.
(ii) A request based on unreasonable cost shall include a reasonable survey of the market and a completed price
comparison table in the format in paragraph (d) of this clause.
(iii) The price of construction material shall include all delivery costs to the construction site and any applicable
duty (whether or not a duty-free certificate may be issued).
(iv) Any Contractor request for a determination submitted after contract award shall explain why the Contractor
could not reasonably foresee the need for such determination and could not have requested the determination before
contract award. If the Contractor does not submit a satisfactory explanation, the Contracting Officer need not make a
determination.
(2) If the Government determines after contract award that an exception to the Buy American statute applies and the
Contracting Officer and the Contractor negotiate adequate consideration, the Contracting Officer will modify the
contract to allow use of the foreign construction material. However, when the basis for the exception is the
unreasonable price of a domestic construction material, adequate consideration is not less than the differential
established in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this clause.
(3) Unless the Government determines that an exception to the Buy American statute applies, use of foreign
construction material is noncompliant with the Buy American statute.
(d) Data. To permit evaluation of requests under paragraph (c) of this clause based on unreasonable cost, the
Contractor shall include the following information and any applicable supporting data based on the survey of
suppliers:
Foreign and Domestic Construction Materials Price Comparison
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Construction material description Unit of measure Quantity Price (dollars) \*\
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Item 1:
Foreign construction material.... ........... ___ ........ ....... ………. ___ ................ ........ ___ ...............
Domestic construction material... ........ ___ ............... .............. ___ .................. ...... ___ .................
Item 2:
Foreign construction material.... ......... ___ ............. ........ ……. ___ ............... ......... ___ ..............
Domestic construction material... ....... ___ .................. ............. ___ ................. ....... ___ ................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[* Include all delivery costs to the construction site and any applicable duty (whether or not a duty-free entry
certificate is issued)].
[List name, address, telephone number, and contact for suppliers surveyed. Attach copy of response; if oral,
attach summary.]
[Include other applicable supporting information.]
(End of clause)
52.225-11 BUY AMERICAN--CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS UNDER TRADE AGREEMENTS (NOV
2021)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause--

W912P822B0019
Page 47 of 62
Caribbean Basin country construction material means a construction material that--
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a Caribbean Basin country; or
(2) In the case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been
substantially transformed in a Caribbean Basin country into a new and different construction material distinct from
the materials from which it was transformed.
Commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item—
(1) Means any item of supply (including construction material) that is--
(i) A commercial product (as defined in paragraph (1) of the definition of "commercial product" at Federal
Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 2.101);
(ii) Sold in substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and
(iii) Offered to the Government, under a contract or subcontract at any tier, without modification, in the same form
in which it is sold in the commercial marketplace; and
(2) Does not include bulk cargo, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 40102(4)such as agricultural products and petroleum
products.
Component means an article, material, or supply incorporated directly into a construction material.
Construction material means an article, material, or supply brought to the construction site by the Contractor or
subcontractor for incorporation into the building or work. The term also includes an item brought to the site
preassembled from articles, materials, or supplies. However, emergency life safety systems, such as emergency
lighting, fire alarm, and audio evacuation systems, that are discrete systems incorporated into a public building or
work and that are produced as complete systems, are evaluated as a single and distinct construction material
regardless of when or how the individual parts or components of those systems are delivered to the construction site.
Materials purchased directly by the Government are supplies, not construction material.
Cost of components means--
(1) For components purchased by the Contractor, the acquisition cost, including transportation costs to the place of
incorporation into the construction material (whether or not such costs are paid to a domestic firm), and any
applicable duty (whether or not a duty-free entry certificate is issued); or
(2) For components manufactured by the Contractor, all costs associated with the manufacture of the component,
including transportation costs as described in paragraph (1) of this definition, plus allocable overhead costs, but
excluding profit. Cost of components does not include any costs associated with the manufacture of the construction
material.
Designated country means any of the following countries:
(1) A World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement (WTO GPA) country (Armenia, Aruba,
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea (Republic of), Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Ukraine, or United
Kingdom);

W912P822B0019
Page 48 of 62
(2) A Free Trade Agreement (FTA) country (Australia, Bahrain, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican
Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Korea (Republic of), Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Panama,
Peru, or Singapore);
(3) A least developed country (Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia,
Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Laos, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Solomon
Islands, Somalia, South Sudan, Tanzania, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Yemen, or Zambia); or
(4) A Caribbean Basin country (Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bonaire, British Virgin
Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saba, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent and the Grenadines, Sint Eustatius, Sint Maarten, or Trinidad and Tobago).
Designated country construction material means a construction material that is a WTO GPA country construction
material, an FTA country construction material, a least developed country construction material, or a Caribbean
Basin country construction material.
Domestic construction material means--
(1) For construction material that does not consist wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both-
(i) An unmanufactured construction material mined or produced in the United States; or
(ii) A construction material manufactured in the United States, if--
(A) The cost of its components mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States exceeds 55 percent of the
cost of all its components. Components of foreign origin of the same class or kind for which nonavailability
determinations have been made are treated as domestic. Components of unknown origin are treated as foreign; or
(B) The construction material is a COTS item; or
(2) For construction material that consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both, a
construction material manufactured in the United States if the cost of foreign iron and steel constitutes less than 5
percent of the cost of all components used in such construction material. The cost of foreign iron and steel includes
but is not limited to the cost of foreign iron or steel mill products (such as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, or sheet),
castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture of the construction material and a good faith estimate of the cost of
all foreign iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners. Iron or steel components of unknown origin are
treated as foreign. If the construction material contains multiple components, the cost of all the materials used in
such construction material is calculated in accordance with the definition of "cost of components".
Fastener means a hardware device that mechanically joins or affixes two or more objects together. Examples of
fasteners are nuts, bolts, pins, rivets, nails, clips, and screws.
Foreign construction material means a construction material other than a domestic construction material.
Foreign iron and steel means iron or steel products not produced in the United States. Produced in the United States
means that all manufacturing processes of the iron or steel must take place in the United States, from the initial
melting stage through the application of coatings, except metallurgical processes involving refinement of steel
additives. The origin of the elements of the iron or steel is not relevant to the determination of whether it is domestic
or foreign.
Least developed country construction material means a construction material that--
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a least developed country; or

W912P822B0019
Page 49 of 62
(2) In the case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been
substantially transformed in a least developed country into a new and different construction material distinct from
the materials from which it was transformed.
Free Trade Agreement country construction material means a construction material that—
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) country; or
(2) In the case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been
substantially transformed in a FTA country into a new and different construction material distinct from the materials
from which it was transformed.
Least developed country construction material means a construction material that—
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a least developed country; or
(2) In the case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been
substantially transformed in a least developed country into a new and different construction material distinct from
the materials from which it was transformed.
Predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both means that the cost of the iron and steel content exceeds 50
percent of the total cost of all its components. The cost of iron and steel is the cost of the iron or steel mill products
(such as bar, billet, slab, wire, plate, or sheet), castings, or forgings utilized in the manufacture of the product and a
good faith estimate of the cost of iron or steel components excluding COTS fasteners.
Steel means an alloy that includes at least 50 percent iron, between 0.02 and 2 percent carbon, and may include other
elements.
United States means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.
WTO GPA country construction material means a construction material that--
(1) Is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a WTO GPA country; or
(2) In the case of a construction material that consists in whole or in part of materials from another country, has been
substantially transformed in a WTO GPA country into a new and different construction material distinct from the
materials from which it was transformed.
(b) Construction materials.
(1) This clause implements 41 U.S.C. chapter 83, Buy American, by providing a preference for domestic
construction material. In accordance with 41 U.S.C. 1907, the domestic content test of the Buy American statute is
waived for construction material that is a COTS item, except that for construction material that consists wholly or
predominantly of iron or steel or a combination of both, the domestic content test is applied only to the iron and
steel content of the construction material, excluding COTS fasteners. (See FAR 12.505(a)(2)). In addition, the
Contracting Officer has determined that the WTO GPA and Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) apply to this
acquisition. Therefore, the Buy American restrictions are waived for designated country construction materials.
(2) The Contractor shall use only domestic or designated country construction material in performing this contract,
except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this clause.
(3) The requirement in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause does not apply to information technology that is a
commercial product or to the construction materials or components listed by the Government as follows:

W912P822B0019
Page 50 of 62
[Contracting Officer to list applicable excepted materials or indicate ``none'']
(4) The Contracting Officer may add other foreign construction material to the list in paragraph (b)(3) of this clause
if the Government determines that--
(i) The cost of domestic construction material would be unreasonable. The cost of a particular domestic construction
material subject to the restrictions of the Buy American statute is unreasonable when the cost of such material
exceeds the cost of foreign material by more than 20 percent;
(ii) The application of the restriction of the Buy American statute to a particular construction material would be
impracticable or inconsistent with the public interest; or
(iii) The construction material is not mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States in sufficient and
reasonably available commercial quantities of a satisfactory quality.
(c) Request for determination of inapplicability of the Buy American statute.
(1)(i) Any Contractor request to use foreign construction material in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this clause
shall include adequate information for Government evaluation of the request, including--
(A) A description of the foreign and domestic construction materials;
(B) Unit of measure;
(C) Quantity;
(D) Price;
(E) Time of delivery or availability;
(F) Location of the construction project;
(G) Name and address of the proposed supplier; and
(H) A detailed justification of the reason for use of foreign construction materials cited in accordance with paragraph
(b)(3) of this clause.
(ii) A request based on unreasonable cost shall include a reasonable survey of the market and a completed price
comparison table in the format in paragraph (d) of this clause.
(iii) The price of construction material shall include all delivery costs to the construction site and any applicable
duty (whether or not a duty-free certificate may be issued).
(iv) Any Contractor request for a determination submitted after contract award shall explain why the Contractor
could not reasonably foresee the need for such determination and could not have requested the determination before
contract award. If the Contractor does not submit a satisfactory explanation, the Contracting Officer need not make a
determination.
(2) If the Government determines after contract award that an exception to the Buy American statute applies and the
Contracting Officer and the Contractor negotiate adequate consideration, the Contracting Officer will modify the
contract to allow use of the foreign construction material. However, when the basis for the exception is the
unreasonable price of a domestic construction material, adequate consideration is not less than the differential
established in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this clause.

W912P822B0019
Page 51 of 62
(3) Unless the Government determines that an exception to the Buy American statute applies, use of foreign
construction material is noncompliant with the Buy American statute.
(d) Data. To permit evaluation of requests under paragraph (c) of this clause based on unreasonable cost, the
Contractor shall include the following information and any applicable supporting data based on the survey of
suppliers:
Foreign and Domestic Construction Materials Price Comparison
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Construction material description Unit of measure Quantity Price (dollars) *
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Item 1:
Foreign construction material.... ....................... ....................... .......................
Domestic construction material... ....................... ....................... .......................
Item 2:
Foreign construction material.... ....................... ....................... .......................
Domestic construction material... ....................... ....................... .......................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[* Include all delivery costs to the construction site and any applicable duty (whether or not a duty-free entry
certificate is issued)].
[List name, address, telephone number, and contact for suppliers surveyed. Attach copy of response; if oral, attach
summary.]
[Include other applicable supporting information.]
(End of clause)
52.232-16 PROGRESS PAYMENTS (NOV 2021)
The Government will make progress payments to the Contractor when requested as work progresses, but not more
frequently than monthly, in amounts of $2,500 or more approved by the Contracting Officer, under the following
conditions:
(a) Computation of amounts.
(1) Unless the Contractor requests a smaller amount, the Government will compute each progress payment as 80
percent of the Contractor's total costs incurred under this contract whether or not actually paid, plus financing
payments to subcontractors (see paragraph (j) of this clause), less the sum of all previous progress payments made
by the Government under this contract. The Contracting Officer will consider cost of money that would be allowable
under Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 31.205-10 as an incurred cost for progress payment purposes.
(2) The amount of financing and other payments for supplies and services purchased directly for the contract are
limited to the amounts that have been paid by cash, check, or other forms of payment, or that are determined due and
will be paid to subcontractors--
(i) In accordance with the terms and conditions of a subcontract or invoice; and
(ii) Ordinarily within 30 days of the submission of the Contractor's payment request to the Government.
(3) The Government will exclude accrued costs of Contractor contributions under employee pension plans until
actually paid unless--

W912P822B0019
Page 52 of 62
(i) The Contractor's practice is to make contributions to the retirement fund quarterly or more frequently; and
(ii) The contribution does not remain unpaid 30 days after the end of the applicable quarter or shorter payment
period (any contribution remaining unpaid shall be excluded from the Contractor's total costs for progress payments
until paid).
(4) The Contractor shall not include the following in total costs for progress payment purposes in paragraph (a)(1) of
this clause:
(i) Costs that are not reasonable, allocable to this contract, and consistent with sound and generally accepted
accounting principles and practices.
(ii) Costs incurred by subcontractors or suppliers.
(iii) Costs ordinarily capitalized and subject to depreciation or amortization except for the properly depreciated or
amortized portion of such costs.
(iv) Payments made or amounts payable to subcontractors or suppliers, except for --
(A) Completed work, including partial deliveries, to which the Contractor has acquired title; and
(B) Work under cost-reimbursement or time-and-material subcontracts to which the Contractor has acquired title.
(5) The amount of unliquidated progress payments may exceed neither (i) the progress payments made against
incomplete work (including allowable unliquidated progress payments to subcontractors) nor
(ii) the value, for progress payment purposes, of the incomplete work. Incomplete work shall be considered to be the
supplies and services required by this contract, for which delivery and invoicing by the Contractor and acceptance
by the Government are incomplete.
(6) The total amount of progress payments shall not exceed 80 percent of the total contract price.
(7) If a progress payment or the unliquidated progress payments exceed the amounts permitted by subparagraphs
(a)(4) or (a)(5) of this clause, the Contractor shall repay the amount of such excess to the Government on demand.
(8) Notwithstanding any other terms of the contract, the Contractor agrees not to request progress payments in dollar
amounts of less than $2,500. The Contracting Officer may make exceptions.
(9) The costs applicable to items delivered, invoiced, and accepted shall not include costs in excess of the contract
price of the items.
(b) Liquidation. Except as provided in the Termination for Convenience of the Government clause, all progress
payments shall be liquidated by deducting from any payment under this contract, other than advance or progress
payments, the unliquidated progress payments, or 80 percent of the amount invoiced, whichever is less. The
Contractor shall repay to the Government any amounts required by a retroactive price reduction, after computing
liquidations and payments on past invoices at the reduced prices and adjusting the unliquidated progress payments
accordingly. The Government reserves the right to unilaterally change from the ordinary liquidation rate to an
alternate rate when deemed appropriate for proper contract financing.
(c) Reduction or suspension. The Contracting Officer may reduce or suspend progress payments, increase the rate of
liquidation, or take a combination of these actions, after finding on substantial evidence any of the following
conditions:
(1) The Contractor failed to comply with any material requirement of this contract (which includes paragraphs (f)

W912P822B0019
Page 53 of 62
and (g) of this clause).
(2) Performance of this contract is endangered by the Contractor's --
(i) Failure to make progress or
(ii) Unsatisfactory financial condition.
(3) Inventory allocated to this contract substantially exceeds reasonable requirements.
(4) The Contractor is delinquent in payment of the costs of performing this contract in the ordinary course of
business.
(5) The fair value of the undelivered work is less than the amount of unliquidated progress payments for that work.
(6) The Contractor is realizing less profit than that reflected in the establishment of any alternate liquidation rate in
paragraph (b) of this clause, and that rate is less than the progress payment rate stated in subparagraph (a)(1) of this
clause.
(d) Title.
(1) Title to the property described in this paragraph (d) shall vest in the Government. Vestiture shall be immediately
upon the date of this contract, for property acquired or produced before that date. Otherwise, vestiture shall occur
when the property is or should have been allocable or properly chargeable to this contract.
(2) "Property," as used in this clause, includes all of the below-described items acquired or produced by the
Contractor that are or should be allocable or properly chargeable to this contract under sound and generally accepted
accounting principles and practices.
(i) Parts, materials, inventories, and work in process;
(ii) Special tooling and special test equipment to which the Government is to acquire title;
(iii) Nondurable (i.e., noncapital) tools, jigs, dies, fixtures, molds, patterns, taps, gauges, test equipment, and other
similar manufacturing aids, title to which would not be obtained as special tooling under paragraph (d) (2)(ii) of this
clause; and
(iv) Drawings and technical data, to the extent the Contractor or subcontractors are required to deliver them to the
Government by other clauses of this contract.
(3) Although title to property is in the Government under this clause, other applicable clauses of this contract; e.g.,
the termination clauses, shall determine the handling and disposition of the property.
(4) The Contractor may sell any scrap resulting from production under this contract without requesting the
Contracting Officer's approval, but the proceeds shall be credited against the costs of performance.
(5) To acquire for its own use or dispose of property to which title is vested in the Government under this clause, the
Contractor must obtain the Contracting Officer's advance approval of the action and the terms. The Contractor shall
(i) exclude the allocable costs of the property from the costs of contract performance, and (ii) repay to the
Government any amount of unliquidated progress payments allocable to the property. Repayment may be by cash or
credit memorandum.
(6) When the Contractor completes all of the obligations under this contract, including liquidation of all progress
payments, title shall vest in the Contractor for all property (or the proceeds thereof) not--

W912P822B0019
Page 54 of 62
(i) Delivered to, and accepted by, the Government under this contract; or
(ii) Incorporated in supplies delivered to, and accepted by, the Government under this contract and to which title is
vested in the Government under this clause.
(7) The terms of this contract concerning liability for Government-furnished property shall not apply to property to
which the Government acquired title solely under this clause.
(e) Risk of loss. Before delivery to and acceptance by the Government, the Contractor shall bear the risk of loss for
property, the title to which vests in the Government under this clause, except to the extent the Government expressly
assumes the risk. The Contractor shall repay the Government an amount equal to the unliquidated progress payments
that are based on costs allocable to property that is lost (see 45.101).
(f) Control of costs and property. The Contractor shall maintain an accounting system and controls adequate for the
proper administration of this clause.
(g) Reports, forms, and access to records. (1) The Contractor shall promptly furnish reports, certificates, financial
statements, and other pertinent information (including estimates to complete) reasonably requested by the
Contracting Officer for the administration of this clause. Also, the Contractor shall give the Government reasonable
opportunity to examine and verify the Contractor's books, records, and accounts.
(2) The Contractor shall furnish estimates to complete that have been developed or updated within six months of the
date of the progress payment request. The estimates to complete shall represent the Contractor's best estimate of
total costs to complete all remaining contract work required under the contract. The estimates shall include sufficient
detail to permit Government verification.
(3) Each Contractor request for progress payment shall:
(i) Be submitted on Standard Form 1443, Contractor's Request for Progress Payment, or the electronic equivalent as
required by agency regulations, in accordance with the form instructions and the contract terms; and
(ii) Include any additional supporting documentation requested by the Contracting Officer.
(h) Special terms regarding default. If this contract is terminated under the Default clause, (i) the Contractor shall, on
demand, repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated progress payments and (ii) title shall vest in the
Contractor, on full liquidation of progress payments, for all property for which the Government elects not to require
delivery under the Default clause. The Government shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the Default
clause.
(i) Reservations of rights.
(1) No payment or vesting of title under this clause shall --
(i) Excuse the Contractor from performance of obligations under this contract or
(ii) Constitute a waiver of any of the rights or remedies of the parties under the contract.
(2) The Government's rights and remedies under this clause
(i) Shall not be exclusive but rather shall be in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or this
contract and
(ii) Shall not be affected by delayed, partial, or omitted exercise of any right, remedy, power, or privilege, nor shall
such exercise or any single exercise preclude or impair any further exercise under this clause or the exercise of any
other right, power, or privilege of the Government.

W912P822B0019
Page 55 of 62
(j) Financing payments to subcontractors. The financing payments to subcontractors mentioned in paragraphs (a)(1)
and (a)(2) of this clause shall be all financing payments to subcontractors or divisions, if the following conditions
are met:
(1) The amounts included are limited to--
(i) The unliquidated remainder of financing payments made; plus
(ii) Any unpaid subcontractor requests for financing payments.
(2) The subcontract or interdivisional order is expected to involve a minimum of approximately 6 months between
the beginning of work and the first delivery; or, if the subcontractor is a small business concern, 4 months.
(3) If the financing payments are in the form of progress payments, the terms of the subcontract or interdivisional
order concerning progress payments--
(i) Are substantially similar to the terms of this clause for any subcontractor that is a large business concern, or this
clause with its Alternate I for any subcontractor that is a small business concern;
(ii) Are at least as favorable to the Government as the terms of this clause;
(iii) Are not more favorable to the subcontractor or division than the terms of this clause are to the Contractor;
(iv) Are in conformance with the requirements of FAR 32.504(e); and
(v) Subordinate all subcontractor rights concerning property to which the Government has title under the subcontract
to the Government's right to require delivery of the property to the Government if--
(A) The Contractor defaults; or
(B) The subcontractor becomes bankrupt or insolvent.
(4) If the financing payments are in the form of performance-based payments, the terms of the subcontract or
interdivisional order concerning payments--
(i) Are substantially similar to the Performance-Based Payments clause at FAR 52.232-32 and meet the criteria for,
and definition of, performance-based payments in FAR Part 32;
(ii) Are in conformance with the requirements of FAR 32.504(f); and
(iii) Subordinate all subcontractor rights concerning property to which the Government has title under the
subcontract to the Government's right to require delivery of the property to the Government if--
(A) The Contractor defaults; or
(B) The subcontractor becomes bankrupt or insolvent.
(5) If the financing payments are in the form of commercial product or commercial service financing payments, the
terms of the subcontract or interdivisional order concerning payments--
(i) Are constructed in accordance with FAR 32.206(c) and included in a subcontract for a commercial product or
commercial service purchase that meets the definition and standards for acquisition of commercial products and
commercial services in FAR parts 2 and 12;

W912P822B0019
Page 56 of 62
(ii) Are in conformance with the requirements of FAR 32.504(g); and
(iii) Subordinate all subcontractor rights concerning property to which the Government has title under the
subcontract to the Government's right to require delivery of the property to the Government if--
(A) The Contractor defaults; or
(B) The subcontractor becomes bankrupt or insolvent.
(6) If financing is in the form of progress payments, the progress payment rate in the subcontract is the customary
rate used by the contracting agency, depending on whether the subcontractor is or is not a small business concern.
(7) Concerning any proceeds received by the Government for property to which title has vested in the Government
under the subcontract terms, the parties agree that the proceeds shall be applied to reducing any unliquidated
financing payments by the Government to the Contractor under this contract.
(8) If no unliquidated financing payments to the Contractor remain, but there are unliquidated financing payments
that the Contractor has made to any subcontractor, the Contractor shall be subrogated to all the rights the
Government obtained through the terms required by this clause to be in any subcontract, as if all such rights had
been assigned and transferred to the Contractor.
(9) To facilitate small business participation in subcontracting under this contract, the Contractor shall provide
financing payments to small business concerns, in conformity with the standards for customary contract financing
payments stated in Subpart 32.113. The Contractor shall not consider the need for such financing payments as a
handicap or adverse factor in the award of subcontracts.
(k) Limitations on undefinitized contract actions. Notwithstanding any other progress payment provisions in this
contract, progress payments may not exceed 80 percent of costs incurred on work accomplished under undefinitized
contract actions. A "contract action" is any action resulting in a contract, as defined in Subpart 2.1, including
contract modifications for additional supplies or services, but not including contract modifications that are within the
scope and under the terms of the contract, such as contract modifications issued pursuant to the Changes clause, or
funding and other administrative changes. This limitation shall apply to the costs incurred, as computed in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this clause, and shall remain in effect until the contract action is definitized. Costs
incurred which are subject to this limitation shall be segregated on Contractor progress payment requests and
invoices from those costs eligible for higher progress payment rates. For purposes of progress payment liquidation,
as described in paragraph (b) of this clause, progress payments for undefinitized contract actions shall be liquidated
at 80 percent of the amount invoiced for work performed under the undefinitized contract action as long as the
contract action remains undefinitized. The amount of unliquidated progress payments for undefinitized contract
actions shall not exceed 80 percent of the maximum liability of the Government under the undefinitized contract
action or such lower limit specified elsewhere in the contract. Separate limits may be specified for separate actions.
(l) Due date. The designated payment office will make progress payments on the _____ (Contracting Officer
insert date as prescribed by agency head; if not prescribed, insert “30th”) day after the designated billing office
receives a proper progress payment request. In the event that the Government requires an audit or other review of a
specific progress payment request to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract, the designated
payment office is not compelled to make payment by the specified due date. Progress payments are considered
contract financing and are not subject to the interest penalty provisions of the Prompt Payment Act.
(m) Progress payments under indefinite--delivery contracts. The Contractor shall account for and submit progress
payment requests under individual orders as if the order constituted a separate contract, unless otherwise specified in
this contract.
(End of clause)

W912P822B0019
Page 57 of 62
52.236-1 PERFORMANCE OF WORK BY THE CONTRACTOR (APR 1984)
The Contractor shall perform on the site, and with its own organization, work equivalent to at least (20%) twenty
percent of the total amount of work to be performed under the contract. This percentage may be reduced by a
supplemental agreement to this contract if, during performing the work, the Contractor requests a reduction and the
Contracting Officer determines that the reduction would be to the advantage of the Government.
(End of clause)
52.236-4 PHYSICAL DATA (APR 1984)
Data and information furnished or referred to below is for the Contractor's information. The Government shall not
be responsible for any interpretation of or conclusion drawn from the data or information by the Contractor.
(a) The indications of physical conditions on the drawings and in the
specifications are the result of site investigations by surveys. Field notes, field
results, and other data on which this information is based are available at U.S.
Army Engineer District, New Orleans, Corps of Engineers, Attn: CEMVN-ED,
7400 Leake Avenue, New Orleans, LA 70118-3651, and access thereto may be
had upon request.
(b) Weather Conditions. Data on weather conditions may be obtained from the
National Weather Service. The Contractor shall recognize that the project site is
located along the Gulf of Mexico shoreline in an active and dynamic marine
environment. Surface elevations within the tidal zone shall be expected to vary
from the elevations indicated. Daily changes due to the marine environment are
considered normal and will not constitute a changed condition under contract
clauses.
(c) Transportation Facilities. Work is accessible by floating plant. The site is
located on the West End of Grand Isle. Floating plant may access the site of
work from Caminada Pass and/or other surrounding navigable waterways.
(d) Estimates of quantities involved in certain items of work for which bids are
being solicited on a job basis have been made for the use of the Government.
Copies of these quantity estimates may be viewed or obtained by contacting the
contract Specialist for this contract, Attn: CEMVN-CT, 7400 Leake Avenue, New
Orleans, La 70118-3651. It is expressly understood that the accuracy of these
estimates is in no way warranted and that the furnishing of this information to a
bidder will not relieve him of his responsibility to estimate the quantities involved.
(End of clause)
52.236-15 SCHEDULES FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS (APR 1984)

W912P822B0019
Page 58 of 62
(a) The Contractor shall, within five days after the work commences on the contract or another period of time
determined by the Contracting Officer, prepare and submit to the Contracting Officer for approval three copies of a
practicable schedule showing the order in which the Contractor proposes to perform the work, and the dates on
which the Contractor contemplates starting and completing the several salient features of the work (including
acquiring materials, plant, and equipment). The schedule shall be in the form of a progress chart of suitable scale to
indicate appropriately the percentage of work scheduled for completion by any given date during the period. If the
Contractor fails to submit a schedule within the time prescribed, the Contracting Officer may withhold approval of
progress payments until the Contractor submits the required schedule.
(b) The Contractor shall enter the actual progress on the chart as directed by the Contracting Officer, and upon doing
so shall immediately deliver three copies of the annotated schedule to the Contracting Officer. If, in the opinion of
the Contracting Officer, the Contractor falls behind the approved schedule, the Contractor shall take steps necessary
to improve its progress, including those that may be required by the Contracting Officer, without additional cost to
the Government. In this circumstance, the Contracting Officer may require the Contractor to increase the number of
shifts, overtime operations, days of work, and/or the amount of construction plant, and to submit for approval any
supplementary schedule or schedules in chart form as the Contracting Officer deems necessary to demonstrate how
the approved rate of progress will be regained.
(c) Failure of the Contractor to comply with the requirements of the Contracting Officer under this clause shall be
grounds for a determination by the Contracting Officer that the Contractor is not prosecuting the work with
sufficient diligence to ensure completion within the time specified in the contract. Upon making this determination,
the Contracting Officer may terminate the Contractor's right to proceed with the work, or any separable part of it, in
accordance with the default terms of this contract.
(End of clause)
52.236-16 QUANTITY SURVEYS (APR 1984)
(a) Quantity surveys shall be conducted, and the data derived from these surveys shall be used in computing the
quantities of work performed and the actual construction completed and in place.
(b) The Government shall conduct the original and final surveys and make the computations based on them. The
Contractor shall conduct the surveys for any periods for which progress payments are requested and shall make the
computations based on these surveys. All surveys conducted by the Contractor shall be conducted under the
direction of a representative of the Contracting Officer, unless the Contracting Officer waives this requirement in a
specific instance.
(c) Promptly upon completing a survey, the Contractor shall furnish the originals of all field notes and all other
records relating to the survey or to the layout of the work to the Contracting Officer, who shall use them as
necessary to determine the amount of progress payments. The Contractor shall retain copies of all such material
furnished to the Contracting Officer.
(End of clause)
52.236-17 LAYOUT OF WORK (APR 1984)
The Contractor shall lay out its work from Government established base lines and bench marks indicated on the
drawings, and shall be responsible for all measurements in connection with the layout. The Contractor shall furnish,
at its own expense, all stakes, templates, platforms, equipment, tools, materials, and labor required to lay out any
part of the work. The Contractor shall be responsible for executing the work to the lines and grades that may be

W912P822B0019
Page 59 of 62
established or indicated by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall also be responsible for maintaining and
preserving all stakes and other marks established by the Contracting Officer until authorized to remove them. If
such marks are destroyed by the Contractor or through its negligence before their removal is authorized, the
Contracting Officer may replace them and deduct the expense of the replacement from any amounts due or to
become due to the Contractor.
(End of clause)
52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)
This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in
full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may
be accessed electronically at this/these address(es):
ww.acquisition.gov
(End of clause)
252.203-7004 DISPLAY OF HOTLINE POSTERS (AUG 2019)
(a) Definition. As used in this clause--
United States means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.
(b) Display of hotline poster(s).
(1)(i) The Contractor shall display prominently the DoD fraud, waste, and abuse hotline poster prepared by the DoD
Office of the Inspector General, in effect at time of contract award, in common work areas within business segments
performing work under Department of Defense (DoD) contracts.
(ii) For contracts performed outside the United States, when security concerns can be appropriately demonstrated,
the contracting officer may provide the contractor the option to publicize the program to contractor personnel in a
manner other than public display of the poster, such as private employee written instructions and briefings.
(2) If the contract is funded, in whole or in part, by Department of Homeland Security (DHS) disaster relief funds
and the work is to be performed in the United States, the DHS fraud hotline poster shall be displayed in addition to
the DoD hotline poster. If a display of a DHS fraud hotline poster is required, the Contractor may obtain such poster
from—
(i) DHS Office of Inspector General/MAIL STOP 0305, Attn: Office of Investigations – Hotline, 245 Murray Lane
SW, Washington, DC 20528-0305; or
(ii) Via the internet at https://www.oig.dhs.gov/assets/Hotline/DHS_OIG_Hotline-optimized.jpg.
(c)(1) The DoD hotline poster may be obtained from: Defense Hotline, The Pentagon, Washington, D.C. 20301-
1900, or is also available via the internet at https://www.dodig.mil/Resources/Posters-and-Brochures/.
(2) If a significant portion of the employee workforce does not speak English, then the poster is to be displayed in
the foreign languages that a significant portion of the employees speak.

W912P822B0019
Page 60 of 62
(3) Additionally, if the Contractor maintains a company website as a method of providing information to
employees, the Contractor shall display an electronic version of the required poster at the website.
(d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all
subcontracts that exceed the threshold specified in Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
203.1004(b)(2)(ii) on the date of subcontract award, except when the subcontract is for the acquisition of a
commercial item.
(End of clause)
252.236-7001 CONTRACT DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS (AUG 2000)
(a) The Government will provide to the Contractor, without charge, one set of contract drawings and specifications,
except publications incorporated into the technical provisions by reference, in electronic or paper media as chosen
by the Contracting Officer.
(b) The Contractor shall--
(1) Check all drawings furnished immediately upon receipt;
(2) Compare all drawings and verify the figures before laying out the work;
(3) Promptly notify the Contracting Officer of any discrepancies;
(4) Be responsible for any errors that might have been avoided by complying with this paragraph (b); and
(5) Reproduce and print contract drawings and specifications as needed.
(c) In general--
(1) Large-scale drawings shall govern small-scale drawings; and
(2) The Contractor shall follow figures marked on drawings in preference to scale measurements.
(d) Omissions from the drawings or specifications or the misdescription of details of work that are manifestly
necessary to carry out the intent of the drawings and specifications, or that are customarily performed, shall not
relieve the Contractor from performing such omitted or misdescribed details of the work. The Contractor shall
perform such details as if fully and correctly set forth and described in the drawings and specifications.
(e) The work shall conform to the specifications and the contract drawings identified on the following index of
drawings:
Title File Drawing No.
Grand Isle and Vicinity H-16-48547 G-01 thru G-03
West Jetty Spur Dike C-01 thru C-03
Jefferson Parish, Louisiana
(End of Clause)

W912P822B0019
Page 61 of 62
NOTE: PLAN DRAWING SIGNATURES: The plan drawings accompanying this
solicitation have been submitted and approved by the individuals shown in the title
blocks on the plans. The actual signatures of the individuals shown on the plans are on
file and are available for inspection at U.S. Army Engineer District, New Orleans, Corps
of Engineers, Attn: CEMVN-ED, 7400 Leake Avenue, New Orleans, LA 70118-3651,
and access thereto may be had upon request.
252.236-7002 OBSTRUCTION OF NAVIGABLE WATERWAYS. (DEC 1991)
(a) The Contractor shall --
(1) Promptly recover and remove any material, plant, machinery, or appliance which the contractor loses, dumps,
throws overboard, sinks, or misplaces, and which, in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, may be dangerous to or
obstruct navigation;
(2) Give immediate notice, with description and locations of any such obstructions, to the Contracting Officer; and
(3) When required by the Contracting Officer, mark or buoy such obstructions until the same are removed.
(b) The Contracting Officer may --
(1) Remove the obstructions by contract or otherwise should the Contractor refuse, neglect, or delay compliance
with paragraph (a) of this clause; and
(2) Deduct the cost of removal from any monies due or to become due to the Contractor; or
(3) Recover the cost of removal under the Contractor's bond.
(c) The Contractor's liability for the removal of a vessel wrecked or sunk without fault or negligence is limited to
that provided in sections 15, 19, and 20 of the River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1899 (33 U.S.C. 410 et. seq.).
252.236-7004 PAYMENT FOR MOBILIZATION AND DEMOBILIZATION (DEC 1991)
(a) The Government will pay all costs for the mobilization and demobilization of all of the Contractor's plant and
equipment at the contract lump sum price for this item.
(1) (60%) Sixty percent of the lump sum price upon completion of the contractor's mobilization at the work site.
(2) The remaining (40%) Forty percent upon completion of demobilization.
(b) The Contracting Officer may require the Contractor to furnish cost data to justify this portion of the bid if the
Contracting Officer believes that the percentages in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this clause do not bear a reasonable
relation to the cost of the work in this contract.
(1) Failure to justify such price to the satisfaction of the Contracting Officer will result in payment, as determined by
the Contracting Officer, of --
(i) Actual mobilization costs at completion of mobilization;
(ii) Actual demobilization costs at completion of demobilization; and

W912P822B0019
Page 62 of 62
(iii) The remainder of this item in the final payment under this contract.
(2) The Contracting Officer's determination of the actual costs in paragraph (b)(1) of this clause is not subject to
appeal.

Section Table of Contents
SECTION 01100 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
1. TIME EXTENSIONS FOR UNUSUALLY SEVERE WEATHER 1
2. DAMAGE TO WORK 2
3. SAFETY PROVISIONS 2
4. INSPECTOR'S FIELD OFFICE 6
5. GOVERNMENT TRANSPORTATION 7
6. PROJECT SIGN 7
7. RADIO AND TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS 8
8. SEAWORTHINESS CERTIFICATION 9
9. RIGHTS-OF-WAY 9
10. CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE 10
11. ENVIRONMENTAL LITIGATION 11
12. UTILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS 11
13. PERMISSIBLE HOURS OF WORK 11
14. STONE SOURCES 11
15. SIGNAL LIGHTS 12
16. EQUIPMENT OWNERSHIP AND OPERATING EXPENSE SCHEDULE 12
17. FORMAT OF SURVEYS 13
18. PROJECT BENCHMARKS 14
19. COMMERCIAL WARRANTY 15
20. ACCESS PLAN 15
21. SECURITY REQUIREMENTS 16
01100-a Ed 22-018

SECTION 01100 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
1. TIME EXTENSIONS FOR UNUSUALLY SEVERE WEATHER
(a) This provision specifies the procedure for determination of time extensions
for unusually severe weather in accordance with the Contract Clause in Section
00700, entitled DEFAULT (FIXED PRICE CONSTRUCTION) (FAR 52.249-10).
In order for the Contracting Officer to award a time extension under this clause,
the following conditions must be satisfied.
(1) The weather experienced at the project site during the contract period
must be found to be unusually severe, that is, more severe than the
adverse weather anticipated for the project location during any given
month.
(2) The unusually severe weather must actually cause a delay to the
completion of the project. The delay must be beyond the control and
without the fault or negligence of the Contractor.
(b) The following schedule of monthly anticipated adverse weather delays is
based on National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for
temperature, precipitation and wet ground conditions or similar data for the
project location and will constitute the base line for monthly weather time
evaluations. The Contractor's progress schedule must reflect these anticipated
adverse weather delays in all weather dependent activities. Also considered in
the chart below was wind, fog, high or low tides, etc.
MONTHLY ANTICIPATED ADVERSE WEATHER DELAY WORK DAYS
BASED ON (5) DAY WORK WEEK
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
3 3 3 3 2 3 3 4 3 2 2 3
(c) Upon receipt of the Notice to Proceed (NTP) and continuing throughout the
contract, the Contractor shall record on the daily CQC report, the occurrence of
adverse weather and resultant impact to normally scheduled work. Actual
adverse weather delay days must prevent work on critical activities for 50 percent
or more of the Contractor's scheduled work day.
(d) The number of actual adverse weather delay days shall include days
impacted by actual adverse weather (even if adverse weather occurred in
previous month), and shall be calculated chronologically from the first to the last
day of each month, and shall be recorded as full days. If the number of actual
adverse weather delay days exceeds the number of days anticipated in
paragraph b, above, the Contracting Officer will convert any qualifying delays to
01100-1 Ed 22-018

calendar days, giving full consideration for equivalent fair weather work days, and
issue a modification in accordance with the Contract Clause in Section 00700,
entitled DEFAULT (FIXED PRICE CONSTRUCTION) (FAR 52.249-10).
2. DAMAGE TO WORK
The responsibility for damage to any part of the permanent work shall be as set forth
in the Contract Clause in Section 00700, entitled PERMITS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
(FAR 52.236-7). However, if, in the judgment of the Contracting Officer, any part of
the permanent work performed by the Contractor is damaged by flood, earthquake,
hurricane, or tornado which damage is not due to the failure of the Contractor to take
reasonable precautions or to exercise sound engineering and construction practices
in the conduct of the work, the Contractor shall make the repairs as ordered by the
Contracting Officer and full compensation for such repairs will be made at the
applicable contract unit price or job prices as fixed and established in the contract. If,
in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, there is no contract unit or job prices
applicable to any part of such work, an equitable adjustment shall be made pursuant
to the Contract Clause in Section 00700, entitled CHANGES (FAR 52.243-4). Except
as herein provided, damage to all work (including temporary construction), utilities,
materials, equipment and plant shall be repaired to the satisfaction of the Contracting
Officer at the Contractor's expense, regardless of the cause of such damage.
3. SAFETY PROVISIONS
The safety provisions as specified herein refer to the November 2014 edition of EM
385-1-1. The current document can be found at
http://www.publications.usace.army.mil/Portals/76/Publications/EngineerManuals/EM
_385-1-1.pdf
(a) Mishap Reporting and Investigation. Refer to EM 385- 1-1, Section 01.D.
Reports shall be submitted on ENG Form 3394. Accidents shall be investigated
and reports completed by the immediate supervisor of the employee(s) involved
and reported to the Contracting Officer or his/her representative within one
working day after the accident occurs. All data reported must be complete,
timely and accurate. A follow-up report shall be submitted when the estimated
lost time days differs from the actual lost time days.
(b) Accident Prevention Plan (APP). (See the Contract Clause in Section 00700,
entitled Accident Prevention (FAR 52.236-13).) Within 15 days after receipt of
Notice of Award of the contract, and at least 7 days prior to the prework
conference, four copies of the Accident Prevention Plan shall be submitted to the
Contracting Officer for review and acceptance. The plan shall be prepared in the
following format:
(1) Executed CESO Form A-02), Accident Prevention Plan Checklist (the
“fillable form” can be obtained from:
01100-2 Ed 22-018

