(ii) For contracts performed outside the United States, when security concerns can be appropriately demonstrated,
the contracting officer may provide the contractor the option to publicize the program to contractor personnel in a
manner other than public display of the poster, such as private employee written instructions and briefings.
(2) If the contract is funded, in whole or in part, by Department of Homeland Security (DHS) disaster relief funds
and the work is to be performed in the United States, the DHS fraud hotline poster shall be displayed in addition to
the DoD hotline poster. If a display of a DHS fraud hotline poster is required, the Contractor may obtain such poster
from—
(i) DHS Office of Inspector General/MAIL STOP 0305, Attn: Office of Investigations – Hotline, 245 Murray Lane
SW, Washington, DC 20528-0305; or
(ii) Via the internet at https://www.oig.dhs.gov/assets/Hotline/DHS_OIG_Hotline-optimized.jpg.
(c)(1) The DoD hotline poster may be obtained from: Defense Hotline, The Pentagon, Washington, D.C. 20301-
1900, or is also available via the internet at https://www.dodig.mil/Resources/Posters-and-Brochures/.
(2) If a significant portion of the employee workforce does not speak English, then the poster is to be displayed in
the foreign languages that a significant portion of the employees speak.

W912P822B0019
Page 60 of 62
(3) Additionally, if the Contractor maintains a company website as a method of providing information to
employees, the Contractor shall display an electronic version of the required poster at the website.
(d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all
subcontracts that exceed the threshold specified in Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
203.1004(b)(2)(ii) on the date of subcontract award, except when the subcontract is for the acquisition of a
commercial item.
(End of clause)
252.236-7001 CONTRACT DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS (AUG 2000)
(a) The Government will provide to the Contractor, without charge, one set of contract drawings and specifications,
except publications incorporated into the technical provisions by reference, in electronic or paper media as chosen
by the Contracting Officer.
(b) The Contractor shall--
(1) Check all drawings furnished immediately upon receipt;
(2) Compare all drawings and verify the figures before laying out the work;
(3) Promptly notify the Contracting Officer of any discrepancies;
(4) Be responsible for any errors that might have been avoided by complying with this paragraph (b); and
(5) Reproduce and print contract drawings and specifications as needed.
(c) In general--
(1) Large-scale drawings shall govern small-scale drawings; and
(2) The Contractor shall follow figures marked on drawings in preference to scale measurements.
(d) Omissions from the drawings or specifications or the misdescription of details of work that are manifestly
necessary to carry out the intent of the drawings and specifications, or that are customarily performed, shall not
relieve the Contractor from performing such omitted or misdescribed details of the work. The Contractor shall
perform such details as if fully and correctly set forth and described in the drawings and specifications.
(e) The work shall conform to the specifications and the contract drawings identified on the following index of
drawings:
Title File Drawing No.
Grand Isle and Vicinity H-16-48547 G-01 thru G-03
West Jetty Spur Dike C-01 thru C-03
Jefferson Parish, Louisiana
(End of Clause)

W912P822B0019
Page 61 of 62
NOTE: PLAN DRAWING SIGNATURES: The plan drawings accompanying this
solicitation have been submitted and approved by the individuals shown in the title
blocks on the plans. The actual signatures of the individuals shown on the plans are on
file and are available for inspection at U.S. Army Engineer District, New Orleans, Corps
of Engineers, Attn: CEMVN-ED, 7400 Leake Avenue, New Orleans, LA 70118-3651,
and access thereto may be had upon request.
252.236-7002 OBSTRUCTION OF NAVIGABLE WATERWAYS. (DEC 1991)
(a) The Contractor shall --
(1) Promptly recover and remove any material, plant, machinery, or appliance which the contractor loses, dumps,
throws overboard, sinks, or misplaces, and which, in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, may be dangerous to or
obstruct navigation;
(2) Give immediate notice, with description and locations of any such obstructions, to the Contracting Officer; and
(3) When required by the Contracting Officer, mark or buoy such obstructions until the same are removed.
(b) The Contracting Officer may --
(1) Remove the obstructions by contract or otherwise should the Contractor refuse, neglect, or delay compliance
with paragraph (a) of this clause; and
(2) Deduct the cost of removal from any monies due or to become due to the Contractor; or
(3) Recover the cost of removal under the Contractor's bond.
(c) The Contractor's liability for the removal of a vessel wrecked or sunk without fault or negligence is limited to
that provided in sections 15, 19, and 20 of the River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1899 (33 U.S.C. 410 et. seq.).
252.236-7004 PAYMENT FOR MOBILIZATION AND DEMOBILIZATION (DEC 1991)
(a) The Government will pay all costs for the mobilization and demobilization of all of the Contractor's plant and
equipment at the contract lump sum price for this item.
(1) (60%) Sixty percent of the lump sum price upon completion of the contractor's mobilization at the work site.
(2) The remaining (40%) Forty percent upon completion of demobilization.
(b) The Contracting Officer may require the Contractor to furnish cost data to justify this portion of the bid if the
Contracting Officer believes that the percentages in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this clause do not bear a reasonable
relation to the cost of the work in this contract.
(1) Failure to justify such price to the satisfaction of the Contracting Officer will result in payment, as determined by
the Contracting Officer, of --
(i) Actual mobilization costs at completion of mobilization;
(ii) Actual demobilization costs at completion of demobilization; and

W912P822B0019
Page 62 of 62
(iii) The remainder of this item in the final payment under this contract.
(2) The Contracting Officer's determination of the actual costs in paragraph (b)(1) of this clause is not subject to
appeal.

Section Table of Contents
SECTION 01100 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
1. TIME EXTENSIONS FOR UNUSUALLY SEVERE WEATHER 1
2. DAMAGE TO WORK 2
3. SAFETY PROVISIONS 2
4. INSPECTOR'S FIELD OFFICE 6
5. GOVERNMENT TRANSPORTATION 7
6. PROJECT SIGN 7
7. RADIO AND TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS 8
8. SEAWORTHINESS CERTIFICATION 9
9. RIGHTS-OF-WAY 9
10. CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE 10
11. ENVIRONMENTAL LITIGATION 11
12. UTILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS 11
13. PERMISSIBLE HOURS OF WORK 11
14. STONE SOURCES 11
15. SIGNAL LIGHTS 12
16. EQUIPMENT OWNERSHIP AND OPERATING EXPENSE SCHEDULE 12
17. FORMAT OF SURVEYS 13
18. PROJECT BENCHMARKS 14
19. COMMERCIAL WARRANTY 15
20. ACCESS PLAN 15
21. SECURITY REQUIREMENTS 16
01100-a Ed 22-018

SECTION 01100 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
1. TIME EXTENSIONS FOR UNUSUALLY SEVERE WEATHER
(a) This provision specifies the procedure for determination of time extensions
for unusually severe weather in accordance with the Contract Clause in Section
00700, entitled DEFAULT (FIXED PRICE CONSTRUCTION) (FAR 52.249-10).
In order for the Contracting Officer to award a time extension under this clause,
the following conditions must be satisfied.
(1) The weather experienced at the project site during the contract period
must be found to be unusually severe, that is, more severe than the
adverse weather anticipated for the project location during any given
month.
(2) The unusually severe weather must actually cause a delay to the
completion of the project. The delay must be beyond the control and
without the fault or negligence of the Contractor.
(b) The following schedule of monthly anticipated adverse weather delays is
based on National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for
temperature, precipitation and wet ground conditions or similar data for the
project location and will constitute the base line for monthly weather time
evaluations. The Contractor's progress schedule must reflect these anticipated
adverse weather delays in all weather dependent activities. Also considered in
the chart below was wind, fog, high or low tides, etc.
MONTHLY ANTICIPATED ADVERSE WEATHER DELAY WORK DAYS
BASED ON (5) DAY WORK WEEK
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
3 3 3 3 2 3 3 4 3 2 2 3
(c) Upon receipt of the Notice to Proceed (NTP) and continuing throughout the
contract, the Contractor shall record on the daily CQC report, the occurrence of
adverse weather and resultant impact to normally scheduled work. Actual
adverse weather delay days must prevent work on critical activities for 50 percent
or more of the Contractor's scheduled work day.
(d) The number of actual adverse weather delay days shall include days
impacted by actual adverse weather (even if adverse weather occurred in
previous month), and shall be calculated chronologically from the first to the last
day of each month, and shall be recorded as full days. If the number of actual
adverse weather delay days exceeds the number of days anticipated in
paragraph b, above, the Contracting Officer will convert any qualifying delays to
01100-1 Ed 22-018

calendar days, giving full consideration for equivalent fair weather work days, and
issue a modification in accordance with the Contract Clause in Section 00700,
entitled DEFAULT (FIXED PRICE CONSTRUCTION) (FAR 52.249-10).
2. DAMAGE TO WORK
The responsibility for damage to any part of the permanent work shall be as set forth
in the Contract Clause in Section 00700, entitled PERMITS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
(FAR 52.236-7). However, if, in the judgment of the Contracting Officer, any part of
the permanent work performed by the Contractor is damaged by flood, earthquake,
hurricane, or tornado which damage is not due to the failure of the Contractor to take
reasonable precautions or to exercise sound engineering and construction practices
in the conduct of the work, the Contractor shall make the repairs as ordered by the
Contracting Officer and full compensation for such repairs will be made at the
applicable contract unit price or job prices as fixed and established in the contract. If,
in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, there is no contract unit or job prices
applicable to any part of such work, an equitable adjustment shall be made pursuant
to the Contract Clause in Section 00700, entitled CHANGES (FAR 52.243-4). Except
as herein provided, damage to all work (including temporary construction), utilities,
materials, equipment and plant shall be repaired to the satisfaction of the Contracting
Officer at the Contractor's expense, regardless of the cause of such damage.
3. SAFETY PROVISIONS
The safety provisions as specified herein refer to the November 2014 edition of EM
385-1-1. The current document can be found at
http://www.publications.usace.army.mil/Portals/76/Publications/EngineerManuals/EM
_385-1-1.pdf
(a) Mishap Reporting and Investigation. Refer to EM 385- 1-1, Section 01.D.
Reports shall be submitted on ENG Form 3394. Accidents shall be investigated
and reports completed by the immediate supervisor of the employee(s) involved
and reported to the Contracting Officer or his/her representative within one
working day after the accident occurs. All data reported must be complete,
timely and accurate. A follow-up report shall be submitted when the estimated
lost time days differs from the actual lost time days.
(b) Accident Prevention Plan (APP). (See the Contract Clause in Section 00700,
entitled Accident Prevention (FAR 52.236-13).) Within 15 days after receipt of
Notice of Award of the contract, and at least 7 days prior to the prework
conference, four copies of the Accident Prevention Plan shall be submitted to the
Contracting Officer for review and acceptance. The plan shall be prepared in the
following format:
(1) Executed CESO Form A-02), Accident Prevention Plan Checklist (the
“fillable form” can be obtained from:
01100-2 Ed 22-018

