UK Design and Construction Standards
Section 23 3300 | Air Duct Accessories

1. ACCESS DOORS
A. Provide duct access doors upstream and downstream of all duct-mounted coils.
B. Provide duct access doors at fire and combination fire/smoke dampers. Doors to be no smaller than 12" x 12" (except where duct is smaller than 14" wide).
C. Duct access doors above ceilings shall be full cam lock style – no hinges.

2. FLEXIBLE DUCT
A. All supply flexible duct shall be insulated with a 1 1/2" blanket of glass wool with an outer moisture barrier. The insulation assembly shall have a flame spread of not more than 25 and a smoke development rate of not over 50.
B. A single length of flexible duct shall not exceed 3'0". Splicing of multiple pieces of flexible duct is not permitted.
C. The minimum bend radius shall be 1 1/2 times the duct diameter.
D. Total offset in any run of flexible duct shall not exceed 90 degrees for aluminum flexible duct or 180 degrees for PVC flexible duct.
E. Flexible ductwork shall not be used in high or medium pressure ductwork.
F. Allowable materials: Medical Campus – Aluminum or PVC. Education Campus – Aluminum.

Section 23 3600 | Air Terminal Units

1. VARIABLE AIR VOLUME UNITS
A. VAV's shall be double wall construction. They shall have a low leakage damper with a cell foam gasket.
B. Special consideration should be given during design to provide adequate access to the VAV controller and reheat piping accessories.

2. REHEAT COILS
A. Each VAV shall have an associated hot water reheat coil. The VAV box and reheat coil shall be separate components.
B. Reheat coils shall be selected at an entering water temperature of 180 deg F and an entering air temperature of 55 deg F.
C. Coils shall have 0.0095" aluminum fins and 0.035" copper tubes.
D. Access door to be minimum 12" x 12" and larger where larger duct allows.
E. Reheat coils shall be hard piped, not connected with flexible hoses.

Section 23 3713 | Diffusers, Registers, and Grilles

1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
A. Generally, diffusers, registers, and grilles shall be of galvanized steel construction.
B. Where terminal units require to be filtered, the filter shall be at the return grille and not at the unit.
